Cell-fate decisions are controlled by a process called reprograming, in which the cell’s chromatin is switched on or off. This process is controlled, on the one hand, by signaling from a cell niche to the recipient cell. However, it is not clear how this process works, and how it can be controlled in intact tissues. To investigate this question, Tursun, Patel et al. studied the germline of a worm called C. elegans. In this worm, the gene for a protein called GLP-1/Notch is turned on, but this protein is silenced by another gene called LIN-53, which is required for cells to become pluripotent. The gene that encodes this gene is called the histone demethylase ( or PRC2 for short ). It is also known to regulate the activity of other genes, such as a transcription factor called LAG-5. These genes are also involved in the process of converting germ cells into neurons. But it was not known whether the genes that activate the Notch signaling pathway were also activated by the same gene, or if they were simply switched off by an enzyme called UTX-2. Now, Riddle and Patel have investigated whether this is the case. First, they used a combination of genetics, tissue-specific transcriptome analysis and functional studies to find out if this enzyme is a key target of the notch pathway. Further experiments showed that this pathway is best known for maintaining undifferentiated germ-line stem cells and that it also promotes the conversion of stem-cell into neuron-like cells. Finally, using a technique called functional analysis of human cells, these experiments revealed that the human immune system is better able to control the expression of certain genes than previously thought. By inhibiting the production of histones, this new knowledge could lead to new treatments for diseases associated with abnormal gene expression.
Klebsiella pneumoniae is a bacterium that can cause pneumonia, sepsis and other life-threatening infections. It is an opportunistic pathogen that infects the lungs of patients with pneumonia. The disease is caused by a type of immune system called the neutrophil, which is able to bind to the bacteria that cause the infection. Neutrophils are the first responder cell type for fighting against invading bacteria. However, they are also vulnerable to infection by other bacteria, including those that are resistant to antibiotics. One of the most common causes of pneumonia is the accumulation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in the blood and urine of infected patients. A protein called SKAP2 is required for K. pneumonia to work properly in healthy mice, but it is not clear how this protein works. To investigate this question, Bortoletto et al. used mice that had been genetically engineered to have mutations in a gene that encodes an adaptor protein. These mice had a 100-fold higher burden of ROS in their lungs compared to normal mice. In addition, the mice also had higher levels of a protein that helps to regulate ROS production. Further experiments showed that the same protein is also required to protect the immune cells against K. pneumonia from other pathogens. This protein was also found to be involved in regulating the activity of several other proteins that help to control ROS levels. Moreover, it was shown that these proteins were also important for protecting the cells that produce ROS, and that they also play an important role in controlling the production of other signaling pathways that promote ROS activity.
Plasmodium falciparum ( P. vivax ) is one of the most widely distributed species of malaria in the world, causing an estimated 80–300 million clinical episodes every year. However, it is not well understood how the transmission of this parasite between human and mosquito-borne diseases is controlled. To investigate this, Battle et al. developed a mathematical model of how malaria transmission occurs. The model is based on mathematical models that describe how a parasite called hypnozoites activate and die after a mosquito bites a human. These models are used to predict how many times a person will relapse from a malaria-causing infection, and how long it will take for the parasite to die. This model predicts that individuals with the highest levels of these parasites will be more likely to relapse and be targeted for treatment. In the future, the model could also be applied to other malaria parasites, such as the Anopheles mosquito.
When 2 Mha of forests are disturbed by selective logging each year, more than 90 Tg of carbon dioxide ( or CO2 ) is emitted to the atmosphere. These carbon emissions are then counterbalanced by forest regrowth. However, it is not clear how much of this carbon is actually lost. To address this question, Sist et al. have used a computer model to estimate the extent of the carbon loss in the Amazonian Amazon. The model identified 133 permanent forest plots ( 175 ha in total ) across Amazonia, which cover a large area of land. This revealed that, in some cases, the loss of a forest’s aboveground carbon stocks is offset by the recovery of forested areas that are used for agriculture and grazing. In other instances, forest loss is compensated for by increased growth of survivors and recruited trees, but it remains difficult to accurately predict how this recovery will be achieved. Here, Vidal and Asner use computer models to model the effects of selective logging on forest regeneration. They show that the rate at which the forest is re-forested over 10 years is higher in regions where there is high rainfall and high seasonality than in areas where it was previously logged. Overall, these findings provide a comprehensive map of post-logging carbon recovery potential in tropical forests.
Neurosphere formation is one of the most important processes in the brain. Neural stem cells, or NSCs for short, are a type of stem cell that is found in both the central nervous system ( CNS ) and the olfactory bulb ( the bulbous bulb ). These cells are known as quiescent or ‘initiating cells’ and are able to regenerate the ventricle after injury. However, it is not clear whether these cells also form neurospheres. To investigate this question, Doetsch et al. used a technique called flow cytometry to study the activity of neurons in adult mouse lateral ventricular zone ( SVZ ) cells. The experiments showed that the cells that form the neurons form a network of neural spheres, which is similar to the ones that make up a brain cell. This network is made up of a number of different types of cells and is thought to be responsible for the development of new neurons and astrocytes. Previous studies have shown that these neural cells form networks of nerve cells within the adult brain, but it was not known whether they also have other roles. In the future, the next challenge will be to identify and isolate these networks.
Cells are constantly exposed to mechanical forces and have evolved diverse molecular mechanisms that enable them to detect them. For example, a protein called Piezo1 is a mechanically gated ion channel involved in sensing forces in various cell types and tissues. However, it is not clear how this mechanism works. To investigate this question, Kefauver et al. used a technique called patch-clamp electrophysiology to study the structure of a piezo channel in human neural stem cells. The experiments revealed that the shape and size of the channel can influence how it senses forces. In particular, the size and shape of these ion channels could influence their sensitivity to forces that occur in milliseconds. This suggests that these channels may be independent mechanotransducers, and that they may interact with each other in a way that is likely to be physiologically relevant.
When we make a decision, we are not hard wired or reflexive. Instead, our decision-making process relies on the accumulation of information from different sources, such as noise. This information accumulates over time, and is known as decision confidence. However, it is not clear how the process of decision formation gives rise to decision speed and accuracy. To answer this question, Fetsch et al. used a technique called transcranial magnetic stimulation ( or TMS for short ) to study the brain activity of monkeys and humans. The experiments showed that the noise in the visual cortex of the monkeys increased the amount of noise that could be added to the signal-to-noise ratio. In the experiments, the recordings were recorded from the brains of both humans and monkeys. These recordings revealed that when noise was increased, monkeys were more likely to make decisions based on their decision accuracy and confidence over a range of stimuli, including coffee or tea. Further experiments confirmed that noise increases the number of dots that are present simultaneously, which suggests that they are more accurate than previously thought. Moreover, this increase in noise caused monkeys to be more confident about the accuracy of their decisions. Overall, these findings suggest that a brain process called decision learning is governed by three key observables: speed, accuracy, confidence and reaction time.
Cells are made up of many different types of cells. One type of cell, known as the Caenorhabditis elegans, has a relatively short lifespan, but it is not clear how it regulates this lifespan. A protein called DAF-16 is a transcription factor that regulates the activity of a number of signaling pathways, including the insulin signaling pathway and the FOXO pathway. However, it was not known how this protein controls the lifespan of the worms. Now, Greer, Brunet et al. have shown that a gene called TAX-6•CNB-1, which encodes a protein that is phosphorylated and activated by the AKT kinases, also regulates lifespan in the C. elegan worm. Calcineurin, a phosphatidylinositol 3, 4, 5-trisphosphatase, and another kinase called CAMKII regulate lifespan by removing the phosphate group from the protein. This protein is also known to regulate the activities of other transcription factors, such as genes that encode proteins that are involved in cell division. The experiments show that the two proteins interact with each other in response to different stress conditions. In addition, the enzymes that activate these interactions are also found in other species, like flies and mice. Further work is now needed to understand how these two enzymes interact.
Animals engage in a variety of complex serial behaviors that are essential for survival. For example, fruit flies groom their bodies with their front legs and hind legs. Fruit flies use a technique called “grooming” to clean their body parts, which is similar to bird song. However, it is not clear how the fruit fly’s nervous system determines which actions to perform. To investigate this question, Fentress and Stilwell developed a new tool that can be used to identify the neurons that drive the behavior. The tool was genetically engineered to detect the activity of specific neurons in the brain, and it was then programmed to selectively clean individual parts of the body in sequence. This revealed that the motor programs that were activated in each sequence were organized into a suppression hierarchy. When the flies were given a chance to groom, they cleaned their entire body, but only when they had already started cleaning the other parts. Fertress et al. then used genetically targeted mice to drive a series of movements that clean the fly's body. These movements were successful in reproducing the grooming sequence, even though they did not occur in sequential sequences. Further experiments showed that these movements are driven by the same neural activity that is activated when a fly cleans its body part. In the experiments, the mice were then exposed to different types of electrical stimulation that reduced the amount of dust that was left on the surface of each fly. As a result, each movement was more efficient than the previous one. Future experiments will be able to test whether this model is also applied to other animals, such as birds and insects.
When a cell divides, its chromosomes are attached to each other in a process called chromosome segregation. This process is called meiosis I and II, and it involves the attachment of chromosomes to the surface of the microtubules that hold the cell’s chromosomes together. However, it is not clear how these processes are coordinated. Now, Tachibana-Konwalski et al. show that a protein called Shugoshin-like protein 2 ( Sgol2 ) plays an important role in preventing chromosomes from being separated in the first or second meiotic division. The protein is made up of two groups of proteins: one called the spindle assembly checkpoint ( or SAC for short ) and the other called cohesin. Together, the two proteins protect the chromosomes by binding directly to one another, which prevents them from separating. In addition to protecting chromosomes, this protein also helps to prevent the formation of bivalents and prevents the cells from dividing too quickly. These interactions are regulated by a complex of molecules called spindles that are responsible for keeping chromosomes separated from the rest of their siblings. Mutations in one of these proteins can cause chromosome separation in mammals, but it remains unclear how they work together and why they do so. To address this question, researchers have now discovered that in mammalian oocytes the protein 1 is able to turn off the sAC and stop it from interfering with the activity of another protein, called PP2A. Further experiments showed that the proteins also help to shut off a second checkpoint called MCAK. Understanding how this is coordinated is important because it will help us to understand how chromosomes segregate in humans and other animals.
Neurons are highly polarized and compartmentalized cells that extend long distances and form thousands of connections with other neurons. These connections require new molecules called RNA molecules, which are made from proteins called messenger RNAs ( mRNAs for short ), and proteins ( proteins ) that bind to the mRNA molecules. When a neuron is paired with a motor neuron, it undergoes a process called synapse formation and plasticity. This process involves a series of changes in the structure and function of the neuron. For example, the activity of a protein called serotonin triggers the translation of mRNA from the nucleus to stimulated synapses. Previous studies have shown that this process is regulated by a signaling molecule called the netrin-1/DCC receptor signaling. However, these studies did not show that the production of these molecules was restricted to specific locations within the cell. To address this question, Lyles et al. used a technique called fluorescent in situ hybridization ( FISH ) to study the localization of RNA in Aplysia sensory-motor neurons in cultured mice. The experiments showed that mRNA was delivered throughout the neurons, but only at sites of contact and/or synaptic stimulation. In contrast, when neurons were paired to motor neurons they were more likely to be able to respond to a signal from a nearby neuron than to receive it from their nucleus. Further experiments revealed that in addition to regulating mRNA translation, local RNA is also required to make proteins that are needed for the formation of new connections between neurons and other brain cells. Furthermore, this suggests that local mRNA is required for long-term synaptic formation.
Morphogenesis is a process in which the cells of the body are organized into distinct groups of cells. This process is known as asymmetric emergence, and it is the hallmark of morphogenesis. Morphous cells are able to self-organize into tissue-like structures, such as optic cups, gut organoids, or other organs. However, it remains unclear how this asymmetry-breaking process occurs. To investigate this question, Mandegar et al. genetically engineered human induced pluripotent stem cells ( hiPSCs ) to produce a variety of different types of stem cell. These cells were then genetically modified to form two distinct populations, one of which is called a “molecular knockdown”. When the two populations were genetically edited, these cells became more symmetric, while the other group was less symmetrical. The experiments show that a protein called ROCK1 and CDH1, which regulate cell-cell interactions, can be selectively perturbed in response to CRISPR interference. In addition, the researchers found that these two proteins were less active in the mutant cells than in normal cells, suggesting that they were more likely to behave in a similar way to embryonic development. Further experiments showed that this effect was due to the presence of a molecular regulator of cortical tension and cell adhesion, a molecule that helps cells to communicate with each other and to coordinate their behavior. Moreover, when the cell’s genes were switched on or off, this reduced the number of genes that control how cells behave, leading to a pattern of asymmetrical formation. Overall, using the techniques used in this study to study the asymmetries that occur in human embryos revealed that the differences in cell behavior were not caused by a single gene, but rather by changes in gene expression within the mixed populations that stabilized in coordination with the observed pattern. Understanding how these differences occur could help researchers to design new organs and tissues.
Visual working memory decreases with the number of items in memory. This is because the amount of information stored in the memory of an individual is reduced with each item encoded. However, it is not clear how the brain minimizes this effect. To investigate this question, Emrich et al. used a mathematical model to test the theory against data from nine delayed-estimation experiments. The model showed that the human brain maximizes a weighted sum of both an error-based behavioral cost and a neural encoding cost. In the experiments, the observer holds a set of objects in a memory and then reports their estimate of a randomly probed target item. These estimates are then compared to the expected value of the information encoded by the item, which is then measured by probing probability. As a result, these estimates can vary between the items encoded with a given value and those that are not. It is also possible that this process is driven by external incentives, such as the fact that a person is rewarded for performing well on a task that is independent of their performance. Furthermore, this model predicts that cognitive "limitations" arise from rational cost minimization rather than from constraints.
Plants use autophagy to protect their crops from pests and disease. This process is controlled by a group of proteins known as cargo receptors, which bind to a specific type of cargo receptor. When a plant is deprived of nutrients, it releases a protein called ATG8CL into the cell’s lytic compartment, where it stores the nutrients it needs to survive. In the potato blight pathogen Phytophthora infestans, an effector called PexRD54, is able to detect and remove unwanted cargo from plant cells. However, the exact molecular mechanisms that regulate this process are not fully understood. Stolz et al. have now investigated how a bacterium that causes a crop loss in the Irish potato famine can interfere with the process. The experiments show that the plant pathogens use a mechanism called a “catabolic pathway” that binds to an enzyme called Joka2, a receptor for the protein that is responsible for triggering the activation of this pathway. Further experiments showed that this mechanism works by inhibiting the activity of a gene that encodes the gene for another protein, called AIM2. Together, these findings suggest that plant pathogens have evolved a new way to interact with and subvert the production of these proteins.
Cardiac fibroblasts are a type of tissue that helps to maintain the integrity of the heart. When a heart attack or stroke occurs, the myocardium becomes inflamed, which leads to the death of contractile cardiac myocytes. This process is triggered by a series of environmental cues, including changes in the amount of oxygen and nutrients that flow into the body. In the first few hours of an injury, these changes can trigger a cascade of cellular responses. For example, when a person’s heart starts to contract, their blood pressure drops, and their oxygen levels drop. However, it is not clear how these early changes are triggered. Ugolini et al. have now developed a new microdevice that can be used to control the levels of different environmental stimuli. The device was developed to simulate the effects of mechanical stress on the cells that produce extracellular matrix ( ECM ) proteins and matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ), but it was not possible to precisely predict how the cell responses to these stimuli would be triggered in real-time. To address this problem, they used a technique called cyclic mechanical strain and controlled oxygen tension to modify the activity of a small group of cells in a blood vessel called the Myocardial Infarction Center ( or CFIC for short ). These experiments show that the CFs respond to both mechanical and oxygen stress by responding to different combinations of these conditions. Further experiments showed that these responses are similar to those seen in patients suffering from ischemic heart disease, in which the blood vessels contract and the tissue is damaged. Furthermore, a combination of two different types of stress, called hypoxia and 2% strain, was able to trigger the activation of CF cells. Unexpectedly, this was also the case for patients who had been exposed to an oxygen-deprived environment and were unable to detect the changes that occurred when the stress was applied to their heart cells, suggesting that this may be due to a lack of understanding of early environmental changes.
Nucleosomes are the building blocks of DNA, which is made up of thousands of proteins. Each gene codes for a protein called H2A. Z, and it is thought that this protein is responsible for controlling the activity of other genes. However, it was not clear how the two proteins interact with each other. To investigate this question, Baldi et al. used a technique called CRISPR/Cas9 to identify two different versions of the enzyme called DOMINO chromatin remodeling ATPase. The experiments revealed that the enzymes that remodel the DNA are involved in a process called histone acetyltransferase ( or DOMIN for short ). Both enzymes work in the same way, but in different ways. In yeast and humans, both enzymes are required to make histones, whereas in Drosophila melanogaster, only one enzyme is required: the SWR1 complex. It is not known how this enzyme works, or how it interacts with other enzymes, such as enzymes. Further experiments showed that two other proteins, known as DOMA and DOM-B, are needed for both activities. These proteins were also found in yeast cells and in flies. This suggests that these two enzymes may interact via different mechanisms. Furthermore, the experiments show that, in contrast to the yeast enzyme, these enzymes do not work together. Instead, they interact in an ATP-dependent manner, similar to how yeast enzymes and enzymes interact. Together these findings provide an instructive example of how different evolutionary strategies can lead to similar functional diversity.
Neuromuscular junction ( NMJ ) is a cholinergic synapse that rapidly conveys signals from nerve terminals to muscle cells to control the movement of the motor neuron. The junction is made up of two layers of cells called motoneurons and muscle cell cells. Each layer contains a protein called β-Catenin ( Ctnnb1 ), which is essential for the junction to form. However, little is known about the role of this protein in the formation of NMJs. Now, Wu et al. have used a technique called transgenic mouse mice to study the activity of a gene called ΔTAD. This gene encodes an enzyme that is responsible for regulating the development of nerve cells in muscle. In the experiments, the mutant mice were genetically engineered to produce a mutant version of ΔtAD that was unable to distinguish between the two types of mice. These mice also had a mutation that caused them to lose the ability to differentiate into motor neurons. Further experiments revealed that the gene for Δ TAD is needed to regulate the differentiation of neurons, but it was not clear whether this gene is also needed for a retrograde role. Wu and co-workers also found that a mutated mutant mutant that lacked the transactivation domain was able to induce synaptophysin puncta in axons of spinal cord explants. Together, these findings suggest that ΔCtAD plays a key role in activating the cell-adhesion pathway that regulates nerve cell differentiation.
Tissues undergo continuous rearrangements that require tightly balanced exchanges of mechanical forces between individual cells. For example, when a tissue undergoes a change in its shape, the forces exerted by a cell on the surface of the tissue can be balanced by forces from the surrounding tissue. However, it is not clear how these forces are balanced between cells and their neighbors. To address this question, Tseng et al. used a technique called high-resolution traction force microscopy ( or TFM ) to study the dynamics of force exchange at cell-cell junctions. The experiments showed that the force exchanged between the cell and its neighbors depended on how tightly the two cells interacted with each other. This revealed that, at the level of a single cell, there was a balance between force and actomyosin contractility at each juncture. In the case of two or more cells, each cell had to balance the amount of forces that it was exerting on its neighboring cell. These forces were then coupled to changes in the position of another cell within the cluster, which allowed the other cell to adjust its position to the strength of its surroundings. Further experiments found that this balance was controlled by the activity of other cells in a cluster of cells that were in mechanical equilibrium with one another, and that these cells were able to maintain the balance of their forces on their neighboring cells even when they were divided or rearranged. TGF-rays were used to measure the mechanical interactions between two different types of epithelial cells at different points in time, using a method called the finite element method ( FEM ). It was also possible to use this technique to identify the molecular mechanisms that control the movement of cell–cell forces in tissues. A future challenge will be to find out how this mechanism works in larger tissue clusters.
Huntingtin is a protein that is made up of five distinct domains. One of these domains is called the polyglutamine tract, which is found near the amino-terminus of the protein. This region is also known as the ‘polyglutenoid’, and it is thought to be important for the development of Huntington's disease. However, it was not clear how this region of huntingtin causes the disorder. Now, Seong et al. have used a technique called circular dichroism to study the structure and function of Huntingtin proteins. The experiments revealed that the size of each of its domains increases the number of proteins that can be produced in a single molecule. In particular, they found that a region called a solenoid is expanded at the end of one domain, where it forms a spherical shape. Further experiments showed that this expansion causes a change in the shape of a particular domain. These findings provide a new way to understand how the length of this domain affects the activity of many proteins in humans.
Iron is essential for the survival of nearly all organisms, including humans and zebrafish. When iron levels are low, a protein called NCOA4 binds to ferritin, which is then released into the cell. This process is controlled by a network of proteins that control the levels of iron in the cells. However, it is not clear how this process works. To find out, Mancias, Dowdle et al. used a technique called biochemical and cell culture to study the role of a receptor called HERC2 in regulating iron metabolism. The experiments showed that the receptor binds ferretin to an enzyme called FTH1, but not FTL. In addition, the protein was also found to bind to a molecule called ubiquitin. Further experiments revealed that this protein is involved in a process called autophagy, in which iron is released from a cell into a compartment called the lysosome, where it stores up to 4500 iron atoms. These experiments show that a region of the enzyme known as the Herc2-FTL ligase interacts with a key surface arginine that is present in FHT1 and a C-terminal element that binds FTR1. Together, these two proteins are able to regulate the activity of ferriticin in cells, and they are important for controlling the production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in animals and humans. Future work will be needed to understand how these processes are controlled.
Higher-level cognition depends on the prefrontal cortex ( LPFC ), a region of the brain that is involved in decision-making. Previous studies have shown that the lateral PFC is organized according to the level of cognitive control. However, it was not clear how this organization works in primates. Now, researchers are trying to understand how the LFC works by studying the activity of different sub-regions of this region. This will help scientists to better understand the role of these sub regions in higher levels of cognition.
Cortical expansion and folding are linked to the evolution of higher intelligence. The expansion of the human brain correlates with the increase in intelligence, but the mechanisms underlying these processes remain poorly understood. For example, a gene called TBC1D3 is found in the mouse brain, and it is thought that this gene contributes to cortical expansion. However, it was not clear how the gene is involved in this process. Now, Florio et al. have used a technique called reverse transcription PCR to study the role of a specific gene that is expressed in human and non-human brain cells. This revealed that the genes that are expressed on the surface of human brains are duplicated in a way that causes the cells to be folded in different ways. In the experiments, mice were exposed to electroporation, which increased the number of cells in their brains and caused them to divide into two groups: the outer and intermediate progenitors ( or IPs for short ). These cells were also more likely to fold than those that were found on mouse brains. Moreover, the expression of another gene in mice that was found to have a similar role in cortical folding was also higher than in other species of primates and mammals, suggesting that it may be important for the growth of cortical folds in humans and other animals.
The immune system must be tightly controlled in order to protect the body from disease. To do this, the immune cells must reprogram themselves so that they are able to detect and respond to pathogens. This process is known as ‘reprogramming’. In plants, a protein called the transcriptional coactivator NPR1 is active in the nucleus of the plant. However, it is not clear how this process works. Spoel, Dong et al. have now investigated if the activity of this protein is controlled by other proteins. The experiments show that the protein interacts with a group of enzymes called E3 and E4 ligases, which are responsible for the production of proteins that are essential for plant immunity. These enzymes are also involved in a process called ubiquitination, in which the proteins are removed from the cell nucleus and replaced with another protein, called CRL3. UBE4 is thought to play a key role in boosting the levels of NPR proteins in plant cells, but it was not known if it also plays a similar role when the proteasome is switched on, or if this is the case in other eukaryotes, such as yeast and humans. It was also unclear whether the enzymes that remove the NPR protein from cells also play the same role, and if so, if they do so in plants.
In plants, DNA is made up of molecules called ribonucleotides ( or RNAs for short ) that are bound to a protein called Argonaute 4. This protein binds to the DNA of the plant’s fruit fly, Arabidopsis thaliana, which is known to be a major food plant. In this process, the RNA molecules that make up the genome are packaged into 24-nucleotide small interfering RNA ( siRNAs ). The RNA polymerase IV ( Pol IV ) and RDR2 are involved in the production of these molecules. However, it is not clear how the 24 nt siRNA molecules are made. To investigate this question, Matzke et al. used a technique called RNA blot hybridization to identify 24 nucleotide small- interfering RNas that can be produced from either end of a DNA molecule called a single-stranded RNA molecule ( dsRNA ), or from both ends of one of two different types of ribosomal RNA: one strand of DICER-like 3 ( DCL3 ) or the other strand. Mutations in a gene called dcl3 can cause the gene to switch on or off, but it was not known how these changes affect the activity of other genes. Using a combination of RNA and DNA sequencing techniques and deep sequencing to investigate the role of both enzymes in DNA methylation and RNA-directed RNA biogenesis was able to reveal that both of them are responsible for producing 24, 45, and 50, nucleotide short-initiatives. These results suggest that, in addition to blocking the transcription of genes, these two enzymes also play a key role in silencing the genes that do not work properly.
Neurons are the brain’s first cells, and they are responsible for the coordination of information processing and memory. However, it is not clear when and how neural networks develop into their mature form. For example, in humans, the spindle-like pattern of activity that appears in the first week of development is thought to be triggered by peripheral stimuli, but it has not been fully understood how these patterns develop. Now, Khodagholy et al. have used a technique called electrophysiology to study the activity patterns of neurons in mice and humans. The experiments show that neurons are organized in a series of patterns that appear intermittently at the beginning of a developmental week. These patterns are then synchronized with each other, which allows the neurons to synchronize and coordinate their activity. This synchronization is known as the “spindle quiescence”. In contrast, mature neurons do not appear at this time point. Instead, they appear as spindles at a later stage in development, called the second postnatal week ( P ) 5 to 14 ( n = 108 pups ). During this period, neural activity is synchronized and synchronized across different layers of the cortex. Mice with immature neurons show a similar pattern to those in adults. But this transition is characterized by a transient period in which the neural network synchronizes with the cellular and cellular networks that are involved in memory and learning. Moreover, these changes occur at different times during the development of brain cells and neurons. Understanding how this occurs could lead to new treatments for Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders.
Plasmodium falciparum is responsible for the deadliest type of malaria in humans. The parasite’s genome is composed of more than 60 different genes, each of which is unique to each individual host. However, it is not clear how this diversity of genes is maintained. To investigate this question, Tibayrenc et al. developed a mathematical model that simulates the dynamics of the parasite population in a large population of hosts. In the model, the parasites are exposed to a wide range of different viral and bacterial pathogens, and then recombine to produce new versions of their genes. This process is known as ‘strain theory”, but it has been difficult to test it empirically because of its complexity and complexity. These results show that a single parasite genome contains up to 60 genes that undergo recombination, which allows it to evade the host immune response and establish a chronic infection. Further experiments showed that, even under high levels of genetic variation, a small number of single-copy genes can be produced and recombinated to create new copies of each gene. Furthermore, many of these genes are present at the same time in different host populations, making it possible for a parasite to escape the immune system and evade detection. Many pathogen populations seem to have many different types of viral, bacterial and bacteriophage. It is therefore important to understand how parasite populations evolve and evolve.
The immune system is made up of a group of proteins called the Ubiquitin ligases, which are responsible for controlling the immune response of the host cell. When a bacterium enters the body, it activates a signaling pathway known as Nf-κB signaling. This pathway is activated by a protein called UBC13, and it converts it to glutamate ( Q100E ). However, when the bacteria enter the cell, the ubiquitins bind to a residue in the protein that binds to the glutamate residue. In the first steps of this process, a glutamine residue is attached to an amino group called a glycine residue, but the amino groups are not anchored to each other. Shigella flexneri is an enteric bacteria that is known to cause inflammation in its host cells. The bacteria use a process called post-translational modification to alter the structure of these proteins. To do this, they add a molecule called TRAF6RING to their DNA. These proteins interact with one another by attaching a salt-bridge at the end of their chains to form a complex. Now, Middleton et al. show that deamidation weakens the interaction between the two proteins and prevents them from interacting with the same molecule. Further experiments showed that the de-amidase deactivates the binding of TRAFs6 RING by disrupting the intermolecular interactions between these two protein-protein complexes. Unexpectedly, these interactions prevented the proteins from working together to create a new complex that could be used as a defense mechanism against pathogen invasion. Furthermore, this new structure prevents the activity of other proteins that are involved in this complex from interfering with it. Future work will be needed to understand how this modification works and to find out if it is also used in other signaling pathways.
The brain is made up of a group of cells called interneurons, which control the movement of the brain’s sensory inputs. Each inter neuron has a different role in the processing of sensory information, and it is important to understand how different types of neurons are involved in this process. Previous research has shown that the activity of one type of neuron – called somatostatin-positive or parvalbumin-negative – controls the speed at which the same neuron can respond to a stimulus. However, it was not clear how these neurons perform their roles. Now, Adesnik et al. have used a technique called optogenetics to investigate this question. The experiments involved manipulating the firing rate of two neurons in an auditory cortex of awake mice. Stimulating the neurons with a light-on or off light caused them to fire down or up, while inactivating the cells that normally support this activity weakened tuning and decreased information transfer. When the mice were awake, they were able to hear the tone of their own voice, but they could not distinguish between the tones that they heard. This suggests that these differences in activity may be due to the way in which each neuron controls its own activity. In the future, the results of these experiments could be used to develop new strategies to study the role of different neurons within the cortex.
Cognitive functions such as working memory ( WM ) depend on coordinated interactions among large-scale distributed brain networks. For example, a large network of neurons in the middle frontal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule helps to coordinate the movement of information across distant regions of the brain. However, it is not clear how this synchronization occurs. To investigate this question, Fries et al. used a technique called transcranial alternating current stimulation ( or tACS for short ) to stimulate a brain region called the frontoparietal network that supports WM. The activity of this region was measured using a combination of fMRI and functional magnetic resonance imaging ( FMRI ). This revealed that when a task was high, participants were more likely to perform better when their brain activity was low compared to when they performed a simple choice reaction task. Further experiments showed that the same type of stimulation was also applied to the back of a person’s brain during the choice response task, which increased their performance when cognitive demands were high. In contrast, the opposite effect was seen when participants performed tasks that were low in activity. These results suggest that a process called “synchronous” stimulation is necessary to synchronize the activity in this network. Future studies are needed to investigate whether this synchronous activity is also important for the coordination of long-range cognitive processes.
Embryonic polarity is a process by which cells divide from each other to form a single cell. This process is known as ‘splitting’. In most vertebrates and amphibians, embryos are formed in the cytoplasm and/or cortex of the fertilised egg, where the embryo contains as many as 20, 000 cells and is already highly multicellular. However, in mammals, birds and many other animals, the embryos can form multiple individuals at different stages of development. For example, a chick embryo can produce a quadruplet or octuplet when it separates from the egg and divides into two cells. The embryos also have a gene called cVg1, which plays a key role in determining the orientation of each embryo. But it is not clear what role this gene plays in this process. Now, Bertocchini et al. have used a molecular screen to look for genes that are active in embryos that have been genetically modified to produce twins. They found that a transcription factor called Pitx2 plays an important role, and that it regulates the expression of other genes. Further experiments showed that the genes involved in forming twins in chick embryos were also involved. These findings suggest that this mechanism has been co-opted to different functions during evolution.
Animals have evolved the ability to detect and respond to odor gradients in nature. For example, the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster exhibits robust odor-guided behaviors such as turning upwind in flight upon contact with an attractive odor plume, and staying within a specific odor zone. However, fruit flies with only a single functional olfactory sensory neuron ( OSN ) are capable of detecting and responding to changes in the intensity of an odor gradient. This ability is essential for animals to be able to accurately detect the variation in odor concentrations in a given environment. To do so, it is important to understand how the brain processes the signals that are sent to higher brain centers. Previous studies have used a simple method to measure the activity of the sensory neurons that connect with the projection neurons ( or OSNs ) in an early stage of development. Kim et al. used this approach to study the response of flies to a series of odor stimuli. The flies were then exposed to short plumes of a chemical called acetone, which are produced by a network of neurons in one of roughly 50 spherical compartments called the antennal lobe. These neurons then send information about the chemical’s intensity and its rate of change to the lower brain center, where the information is processed by the neurons themselves. In addition, these neurons also relay information to other brain regions, including those involved in vision, audition and audition. Together these findings suggest that the neural circuits that process odor signals can be used to develop new strategies for detecting the variations in odors.
In flowering plants, fertilization is initiated by two female gametes, the egg cell and the central cell. These two fertilizing products are surrounded by a layer of tissue called the endosperm, which supports the growth of the next generation of plants. However, it is not clear how this layer is connected to the seed coat. In the fruit fly Arabidopsis thaliana, a flowering plant that is found in the United States, two male sperm cells are fused together to form a maternally derived embryo and a sperm cell, respectively. The embryo is the only component of a fertilized seed that will form the new one, while the sperm and egg cells each produce a protein called Polycomb Group ( PcG ) protein. Mutations in this protein block the production of auxin, and this block prevents the embryo from developing into a viable seed. Now, Figueiredo et al. have shown that mutant plants that lack the PCG protein are unable to develop a mature seed because they lack an enzyme called AGL62. This enzyme is known to be involved in a number of processes that control the development of seeds, but it has not been fully understood how these processes are regulated.
Bacteriophages are the most abundant life forms on the planet. They are able to infect and kill bacteria and viruses, and they can be used to manipulate the immune system and other biological processes in the body. However, it is not clear how these interactions are regulated. To find out, researchers have used a technique called deep mutational scanning ( or ORACLE ) to study the activity and host range of bacteria. This technique allows researchers to examine the molecular code of a bacterial bacterium and identify which proteins are active and which are inactive. The results are then compared to the results of previous studies, which showed that many of the proteins involved in phage activity are well adapted to different hosts. In addition, the analysis revealed that some proteins that are not active on their host are more likely to be active than others. These findings suggest that the ability of bacterial phages to adapt to their hosts is a key determinant of their ability to survive and thrive in different environments. Now, Yehl et al. have developed a high-throughput method that allows them to create large, unbiased collections of variants on different bacterial species. Using this method, they genetically modified a bacteriophile called T7 to produce 1660 variants that were much more effective against resistant hosts than wildtype variants. Further experiments revealed the role of these variants in preventing the emergence of spontaneous resistance in urinary tract infections. Furthermore, these findings show that a small group of ‘winners’, such as the bacteria that infects the host, are better at controlling the spread of infections than the ones that do not. Overall, this approach provides a generalized framework for characterizing the interactions between bacterial and phagomorphs. It is also a useful tool for studying how bacteria evolve to become resistant to antibiotics.
In people with congenital amusia, a condition characterized by an impaired perception of and memory for pitch, it is thought that this is due to the brain’s inability to distinguish between pitch and duration. However, studies have shown that individuals with the condition are more likely to rely less on pitch than those who do not have this condition. This is because they rely more on the pitch of the words they hear, rather than the duration of their speech. For example, when a person hears a sentence, they often use a longer version of that sentence to make a decision about whether the sentence is longer or shorter. In contrast, people who have amusesia rely on a shorter sentence that is shorter or longer. These findings suggest that these individuals may have a compensatory mechanism. Jasmin et al. used functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) to scan 15 people in the laboratory. The experiments showed that the brains of individuals who rely most on pitches in speech were less able to detect the difference between the two sentences. When the volunteers were asked to read sentences that differed only in pitch or duration, their brain activity was less reliable for them than for the controls. Further experiments revealed that when the participants were given a choice between hearing the same sentence or hearing a different one, the left and right brain regions were more connected to each other than they were to their right and left hemisphere regions. Overall, these findings show that neural connections between these regions are related to how well people can detect and remember pitch. Future studies are also needed to understand how this process works in humans and other animals.
The Tasmanian devil is the only mammal species in which two different types of cancer are present. Both cancers are caused by a protein called the major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ), which is found on the surface of the tumour. This protein is important for the immune system to detect and respond to the cancer. However, it is not clear how the two cancers develop. To investigate this question, Pye et al. used a technique called immunohistochemical and drug sensitivity analyses to identify the genes that are expressed in the cells of a species of fruit fly called Tasmanians devil. The experiments show that the gene encoding the main HHC protein, called DFT1, is only present in a small number of individuals. In contrast, the other two proteins, known as the T cell receptor and TCR, are found in many individuals, including humans, dogs and molluscs. Further analysis revealed that in contrast to a normal human population, a population of Tasmania devil cells is more likely to develop the disease. These findings suggest that this population may be mimicking the evolutionary trajectory of another contagious cancer, Devil Facial Tumour 1, that was first discovered in Tasmania in 1996, but has since spread widely in humans and other mammals. Furthermore, some of these cells express a different class of proteins than the normal cells, suggesting that they may have evolved from a similar tissue to one that already harbours two contagious cancers. Together, these findings provide new insights into the evolution of this disease, and may help to guide the development of new treatments for these diseases.
The cerebellum is one of the most densely connected regions in the brain, integrating inputs from a wide variety of different regions. For example, the granular retrosplenial cortex ( RSG ) receives input from the thalamus and dorsal subcortical regions, but it is not clear how these regions work together to coordinate their activities. To investigate this question, Yamawaki et al. used a technique called channelrhodopsin ( ChR2 ) to map the activity of neurons in a region of a brain known as the basal ganglia. This revealed a double-dissociation that allows neurons from two different types of cortical regions to communicate with each other. The neurons involved in this process are called low-rheobase ( LR ) neurons and regular-spiking neurons. However, it was not known how LR neurons are positioned to receive these inputs, and how they are able to do so. In the future, this work could help to develop a mechanistic understanding of how the RAG integrates information from multiple sources.
Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide. It is also a major risk factor for dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, and several other dementias. In particular, it is the most common form of tauopathy, which is caused by the rapid acceleration and deceleration of the brain. Traumatic brains injury can lead to a range of symptoms, including seizures, post-traumatic seizures and brain death. However, the mechanisms that trigger the spread of these symptoms are still poorly understood. To address this problem, Wang et al. genetically engineered zebrafish larvae to produce a genetically encoded fluorescent protein that can detect the accumulation of human Tau proteins in their brain and spinal cord. The experiments showed that the mutant animals were more likely to spread the Tau protein to distant regions, such as in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease and CTE. Further experiments revealed that these animals also had more Tau inclusions than normal wild-type mice, suggesting that they may be able to prevent the spreading of Tau pathology. These findings suggest that drugs that dampen the release of proteins from the blood or brain could help to slow or even stop the progression of this disease.
The human brain is made up of many different parts of the brain, each with its own unique structure and function. In addition to being able to communicate with one another, it is also important to understand how the strength of connections between two different brain regions affects how individuals behave and behave. For example, researchers have used a technique called resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging ( or rfMRI for short ) to measure brain activity across individuals. This technique uses a set of ‘nodes’ to map the activity of a brain region. The nodes are then compared to each other to create a network matrix, which can then be used to predict the behaviour of an individual. However, this matrix is not always accurate, and it can also be inaccurate. To address this issue, Glasser et al. have now developed a new approach to estimate the spatial topography of brain areas in a larger sample of people. By using this approach, they show that the exact location of each node in the network is strongly associated with how well individuals perform on a range of cognitive tests. Further work is now needed to determine which aspects of functional connectivity are most strongly correlated with behaviour.
Cells are made up of a complex of proteins called transcription factors. The transcription factor TBP is involved in the assembly of the genes that are needed to make proteins. However, it is not clear how the proteins are switched on or off during the formation of muscle cells. Previous research has suggested that a protein that is part of this pre-initiation complex is required for the protein to be made. This protein is also known as a ‘TBP-related factor’, and it has been proposed that this protein can be replaced by another protein called TRF3 or TAF3, which is needed for muscle-specific gene expression. Now, Trapnell et al. have shown that the gene for a new type of protein – called the “Pre-Initiation Complex” – is missing from a mouse model of myoblast differentiation. These mice do not have a skeletal muscle phenotype, but they do have an intact ability to differentiate into new muscle types. Moreover, the lack of an inactive protein in these mice is consistent with the findings of previous studies that suggest that it may be possible to alter the identity of these proteins in other types of cells, such as mouse cells and primary mice. Further work is now required to determine whether this is the case.
The brain is made up of many different types of cells, each of which has its own unique role in learning and memory. However, it is not clear how the brain’s plasticity works. To address this question, Fetz et al. used a technique called optogenetics to stimulate two brain regions, the primary somatosensory ( S1 ) and motor cortex, to study the changes in connectivity between the two regions. The experiments showed that the activity of the neurons in these regions led to the formation of a new connection between these two areas. When the electrodes were switched on, these connections were stronger than before, suggesting that stimulation had a beneficial effect on the network. In the future, this could be applied to other brain areas, such as those involved in memory and learning. Future studies are needed to understand how this process works and how it can be used to treat brain disorders.
The primary visual cortex ( V1 ) of primates is the brain’s main gateway for information from the retina, which is responsible for guiding movement around the world. Previous studies have suggested that the loss of visual function may lead to impaired vision in people with visual impairments. However, it is not clear whether this is also the case in humans. In a rare case of a brain lesion, a macaque monkey was born without a visual processing pathway called V5/MT. This pathway sends information to a region of the cortex called the lateral geniculate nucleus ( LGN ) that is involved in processing visual information. The lesions to this region are thought to have been caused by damage to the primary vision pathway. Miki et al. have now used magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) to examine the structure of this pathway and found that it was not affected by the lesions. Further experiments showed that, even in monkeys that had been born with lesions, the structures outside the visual pathway remained intact. These findings suggest that there may be a link between the damaged visual pathways and residual vision. Future studies are also needed to understand how this process works.
The human immune system detects infections by detecting the presence of foreign DNA in the host’s DNA. This detection process is called cytosolic detection machineries, and it is used to detect pathogens. However, the molecular mechanisms by which this process works are not fully understood. For example, when a virus infects a cell, its DNA is not exposed until it reaches the nucleus, where it can be detected by its own immune cells. In the cytoplasm, a protein called interferon-inducible protein 16 ( IFI16 ) is a key sensor that detects foreign double-stranded ( ds ) DNA and uses it as a scaffold to assemble supramolecular signaling platforms that trigger inflammatory responses on the DNA of the infected cell. Morrone et al. have now used biochemical assays and single-molecule techniques to show that a single molecule of this sensor is able to track long stretches of exposed foreign DsDNA. The experiments showed that the I FI16 sensor tracks the movements of other proteins that are present inside the nucleosome, which is where the virus is most likely to enter the cell and cause it to become infected. Together, these findings reveal a new molecular mechanism that allows the immune systems to distinguish between foreign and non-foreign DNA by directly interfering with the assembly of these proteins. Further work is now needed to understand how this mechanism works and to develop a better understanding of how it works.
Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease ( AD ) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ), are caused by a protein called amyloid plaques. This protein is found in many different parts of the brain, but it is not clear which proteins are responsible for these plaque deposits. A technique called spatially targeted optical microproteomics ( STOMP ) can be used to identify the proteins that are important for the formation of proteins in the brains of patients with Alzheimer’s disease. The technique uses two-photon laser scanning microscopy and mass spectrometry to study the structure and composition of protein deposits in a tissue sample. In the experiments, researchers were able to use a fluorescent dye or antibodies to detect the presence of specific proteins within the tissue. However, it was not possible to precisely identify these proteins because they were too small to be identified. Now, Sipe et al. have developed a new technique that uses a laser to capture the entire tissue of a mouse model and a post-mortem human brain. Using this technique, the researchers have identified the protein components of several proteins. These proteins were then tagged with a photo-tag, which was then applied to all of them. Further experiments showed that the photos-tags were more accurate than previous methods, and the results were consistent with the findings of previous studies. Overall, these results show that STomP is a powerful tool that can identify new proteins and help researchers to develop new ones.
The nervous system is highly evolved to extract, integrate, and transform information. For example, neurons in the brainstem extend their axons into the spinal cord, where they help to control the movement of the limbs. However, it is not clear how these neurons are programmed to grow over great distances, or how they are able to do so. Now, Bonanomi et al. have used a technique called planar cell polarity ( or PCP for short ) to investigate the role of a protein called Frizzled3 in developing motor neurons. This protein is found in many different types of nerve cells, but it was not known how it works in mammals. The experiments show that a small group of proteins in a gene called Fz3 are required for the growth of motor neuron growth. These proteins are produced in two groups: the lateral motor column, which is responsible for controlling the direction of axon growth; and the ventral column that controls the orientation of muscles. In both groups of neurons, the cells in both directions are unable to form connections with each other, leading to the formation of new connections between neurons and their targets. Further experiments showed that the proteins that form these connections are also involved in guiding the development of other nerve cell types, such as the phrenic nerve and nerve plexus. Together, these findings suggest that cells with long-range nerve growth may be programmed not to die unless they arrive at their target on time.
Transposable elements ( or TEs for short ) are a group of proteins that are found in the genome of the embryo. These proteins are thought to be involved in regulating the expression of genes. However, it is not clear how they are regulated by the host. In the early embryo, for example, a protein called transcription factor ( TF ) binds to a gene in a way that allows it to switch on or off genes in specific tissues. This allows the gene to change its activity in response to changes in its environment, which in turn can lead to the development of new tissues and organs. It is therefore important to understand the role of these proteins in gene regulation in early development. Previous research has shown that a large number of TE families are important for regulating gene expression in embryonic and extraembryonic lineages of mice. Now, Schoenfelder, Sundaram et al. have used genetic and epigenetic techniques to examine the roles of a set of long-terminal repeat TE family members in mouse embryonic stem cells and trophoblast stem cell cells. The experiments revealed that only a small proportion of all the long terminal repeat elements in these cells were active in their early stages of development, suggesting that they play a key role in controlling gene activity. Further experiments showed that the longer terminal repeats were more active than their counterparts in other tissues, such as the placenta and the gut. Furthermore, the shorter the repeats, their activity was less active when they switched on genes that were not active at the same time. Overall, these findings highlight the importance of functional tests when evaluating gene regulatory roles in preimplantation.
C4 photosynthesis is one of the most efficient photosynthetic processes on the planet. Plants use this process to grow crops and native vegetation in the tropical and subtropical regions of Africa, Asia and the Americas. The C4 pathway is thought to have first evolved between 32 and 25 million years ago, in response to a decrease in atmospheric CO2 concentration. However, it is not clear how the evolution of this pathway has evolved. Now, Sage et al. have used a mathematical model to identify the evolutionary paths that have led to the emergence of many complex traits in plants. These include the ability of plants to produce more carbon dioxide than previously thought, and changes to their leaf anatomy, cellular ultrastructure and metabolism to increase the efficiency of photoynthesis. This allows the plant to evolve into a variety of different types of plant, including plants that use C3, C2, or intermediate plants, to take photos of their leaves. Sage and Hatch then developed a new mathematical system that predicts which of these pathways the plants use to make photos. Using this system, they identified 18 different species that are able to use the same pathway in different ways. They were then compared to those that do not use a pathway that evolved from the ancestral pathway, which is known as a ‘hidden Markov model’. Together, the results show that the two-celled plants have evolved independently from each other in at least 60 different pathways. Further work is now needed to determine which pathways are most likely to be involved in this evolution.
Nucleotides are the building blocks of many biological processes. For example, a molecule called adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) stores energy in the form of phosphate bonds. ATP is the main source of energy, whereas hydrolysis is a switch that allows ATP to be used as an energy source. However, it is not clear how the evolution of ATP evolved. A protein called SpoIVA is an enzyme that is found in a bacterium called Bacillus subtilis. This enzyme is thought to have evolved from a GTPase, but it has switched its activity to using ATP instead of the more abundant ATP molecule. To investigate this, Ramamurthi et al. used a technique called site directed mutagenesis to recreate the activity of a bacterial ATPase. The experiments revealed that the enzyme was not able to use ATP in its original role. Instead, the enzymes switched their activity toward using the ATP molecules that are needed for the cell’s genetic material to form a new cell type called the endospore. In addition, this enzyme did not form an intermediate that would be required for ATP polymerization. These findings suggest that this change in activity was due to the evolutionary pressure exerted by the bacteria to switch off ATP from ATP and instead use it for other biological functions. Further work is now needed to understand how this evolution occurred.
The hormone leptin is a key signal to the brain that tells us how much energy is stored in the body. In humans and rodents, the hormone is best known for its role in regulating body fat mass and energy expenditure. However, it is not clear how leptin regulates energy balance in early life. To find out, Ramos-Lobo et al. studied mice that lacked a gene that encodes for the leptin receptor ( LepR ) gene. The experiments showed that mice with a mutation in this gene were more likely to develop obesity and hyperphagia than mice lacking the gene for leptin. Moreover, these mice had fewer neurons in their hypothalamus than normal mice. This suggests that the lack of leptin signaling during the first weeks of life may have a negative effect on the development of these diseases later in life, leading to permanent metabolic, neuroendocrine and developmental problems. These findings may also help to explain why obesity is more common in humans than in rodents.
In plants, a protein called flg22 is found on the surface of the plant plant Arabidopsis thaliana. The plant’s immune system senses the bacterial flagellin epitope to activate defenses through the central cytoplasmic kinase BIK1. This complex is made up of a group of proteins called G proteins that interact with each other to form a complex called the FLS2 receptor complex. In the pre-activation state, the G protein interacts with the receptor to produce a molecule called GDP, which is required for the cell division process to work properly. However, it is not clear how the two proteins interact. To investigate this question, Maruta et al. genetically engineered plants that had been exposed to a bacterium called Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato to see if the bacteria could activate their defenses. These plants were able to distinguish between the different types of bacteria, and they were more likely to be resistant to the bacterials than those that were not exposed. Further experiments showed that the mutant plants had a different type of immune response than normal plants and that they had different levels of Gα and Gβ proteins in their cells. When the plants first received the antibiotic treatment, their immune responses were much better than expected, suggesting that these proteins regulate the production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) that are needed for plants to defend themselves against pathogens. Future studies are now needed to investigate whether the same G-protein complexes are required in other plants as well.
The Arabidopsis circadian clock controls gene expression throughout the day and night in most organisms, from single cell photosynthetic bacteria to mammals. However, it remains unclear how robust the circadian rhythm is in individual cells, or how well it is coordinated across the plant. To answer this question, Takahashi et al. used a technique called luciferase reporter to measure the activity of a protein called CCA1, which is found in the fruit and vegetable seedlings. The experiments show that the Cca1 protein is active in many different parts of the seedling, including the shoots, the roots, and the root tip. This suggests that a core circuit that generates the 24-hr rhythm in single cells is also involved in other processes, such as photosynthesis. But it was not clear how much of this circuit is actually in cells at the same time. It was also not known how many cells are active at a single time and how fast the clock is at each time interval. Now, Sakamoto, Fukuda, Harmer and Hsu have combined the data from several studies to create a simple mathematical model that can be used to study the rhythms of individual cell activity in different plant species. In the model, each cell in a particular plant was measured by measuring its activity at different time intervals. Each cell was able to produce two waves of gene activity, one going up and one down. These waves were then compared to each other over several days, suggesting that different cell types have different rhythms. Furthermore, this model showed that cells can synchronise their activity with one another, similar to that seen in mammalian circadian clocks. Taken together, these findings suggest that unlike the centralised mammalian clock in which cells synchronize their genes to regulate the time of day or night, circadian rhythms are synchronized across different plants. Future work will be needed to understand how this synchronisation works in more detail.
As we grow older, our hearing is less able to process speech in noisy environments. For example, when we hear someone talking to us in a noisy environment, the brain unmixes the speech from nearby speakers into a stream of sounds. This process is known as “signaling fine structure processing” ( sTFS ), but it is not clear how this process works. To find out, researchers have used a technique called ear canal EEG recordings to track the activity of people who have lost their hearing. The results showed that people with reduced hearing were less likely to be diagnosed with hearing difficulties when they visited a clinic because of hearing loss. However, this was not the case for those who had lost the ability to hear other people’s speech. Instead, these people were told that they had no hearing at all, and that their speech was fine. These findings suggest that individuals with lower hearing may be more likely than normal to have problems with communication difficulties. Now, Undurraga et al. have developed a new method to measure the variability in speech intelligibility in healthy people. In the experiments, 23 young or middle-aged adults were asked to listen to a familiar male speaker in the presence of two other male speakers. When the volunteers listened to the same speaker, they could hear the sounds of the other speakers at different frequencies. They could also hear sounds that were louder than those coming from their left or right ears, which could explain why they were unable to distinguish between the two voices. Further experiments revealed that this variability could be explained by a combination of brain processing, pupil-indexed listening effort and behavioral FM thresholds. It was also possible that the low-level levels of neural processing and brain activity in these individuals might be due to their loss of speech-in-noise processing.
The retina is one of the most widely used eyes in the human body. It is surrounded by a network of blood vessels called capillaries. This network is made up of hundreds of thousands of cells, each with a different shape and size. However, it is not clear how these cells are moving in and out of these vessels. One way to understand this is to use microscopy, which is a technique called optical coherence tomography ( or OCT for short ). The technique can detect single blood cells in a capillary, but it can also be difficult to measure the flow of a single cell. To overcome this problem, Guevara-Torres et al. used the mouse retina to study single-cell blood flow, a type of eye disease that affects the retina of mammals. Using the microscope, the mice were able to see single cells traveling through the blood. In addition, they could also measure how much blood they were moving. These measurements were then used to compare the size and speed of each blood cell, and to determine whether the cells had died or were still alive. Further experiments showed that this was the case for many diseases, including diabetes and diabetic retinopathy, in which cells die within a short period of time. Overall, these results demonstrate that the eye is the world's most commonly used laboratory animal, yet there is still a huge gap in understanding how the brain works and how it responds to changes in health and disease.
The plant Lotus japonicus has a symbiotic relationship with a fungus called arbuscular mycorrhiza. The two species share a common ancestor, which is known as rhizobia and Frankia bacteria. Both are found in the soil of the plant, and both are able to form symbioses with each other. However, it is not clear how the symbiosis works. To find out, Antolín-Llovera et al. used a technique called quantitative real-time PCR ( qRT-PCR ) to measure the levels of two genes that are required for the formation of symbiotes. First, a protein called Nod Factor Receptor 1 ( NFR1 ) and a gene called SYMRK are involved in forming the nodules. Second, the two gene-like kinases are needed to generate the calcium-spiking genes. These genes are also found on the surface of root hair cells in plants, but it was not known how they work together to produce the specific genes needed for this process. Now, Kistner and Parniske have used the same technique to investigate the role of these genes in plant nodule formation. This revealed that when the root hairs of a plant were exposed to a nutrient-fixing bacterium, they were more likely to develop nodular structures than normal roots. Further experiments showed that the genes were activated independently of either the NTR1 or the other gene that encodes the enzyme that codes for these proteins. In addition, when plants were treated with an antibiotic that inhibits the activity of both genes, these roots were also more sensitive to the antibiotic. Together these findings provide a new tool to study how plants and fungi communicate.
Humans and other animals are social at some point in their life and exhibit specialized behaviors when in the presence of conspecifics, such as grooming and antennae movements. However, it is not clear how these behaviors can be accurately measured in real-time. Now, Pereira et al. have developed a software toolkit that can automatically measure the movements of an animal’s body parts directly from images or videos. This is a major improvement over existing methods for measuring movement, which rely on computer vision to capture and analyze images and videos of the animal. Previous methods used to measure movement were limited to capturing and analyzing images of individual animals, but these methods are now widely used in many experimental settings. These methods can also be used for studying the behavior of large groups of individuals in a laboratory, for example, by measuring the movement of a dog or a cat. In the past, researchers had to manually annotate the images to make sure that they were accurate. But, in recent years, computer-vision technology has made it possible to use deep-learning algorithms to automatically estimate the positions of animals in images, videos, or audio recordings. Using DeepPoseKit could help researchers to improve the accuracy of these algorithms and reduce the time and effort required to analyze the data. Moreover, the new tools are more efficient than previous methods, and they are less time-consuming than current methods. Furthermore, they have a much faster processing speed compared to current algorithms. Further work is now needed to test these new methods in more experimental situations.
Inflammation is an immunological process required for an organized response to infection, injury, and stress. Immune cells such as macrophages have evolved a network of proteins called Nod-like receptors ( NLRs for short ) that are activated when they are challenged with an infection or infection by pathogens. The NLR proteins are then recruited to the inflammasome complex, which is responsible for triggering the activation of the NLRP3 proteins. However, it is not clear how the IL-1β signaling pathway is activated. Lamkanfi, Dixit et al. have now identified an important signaling network in the immune cells of mice and humans that is involved in regulating the levels of inflammatory proteins in these cells. This network is known as the ‘nodlike receptor’ and is active in a wide variety of pathogens, including Salmonella typhimurium, a bacterium that causes a form of cell death called pyroptosis. In the experiments, the mice were treated with a drug that inhibits the production of a protein called NLP3, but it was not known whether the drug was active or inactive. Instead, they were exposed to a range of drugs that reduced the amount of NADH in their cells and prevented them from producing the enzyme needed for the cell to respond properly. Further experiments showed that the drugs were able to trigger the formation of two different types of NK cells, one of which was inactive and the other that did not. These findings reveal a mechanism by which inflammatory signaling networks can be activated by the presence or absence of other molecules.
Breast cancer and Fanconi anemia are two of the most common cancers in the body. Breast cancer is caused by a genetic disorder called breast cancer, in which a protein called BRCA2 plays a key role in repairing damaged DNA. This protein, called PALB2, is an essential component of a family of proteins that are found in many mammals, including humans, and is involved in a wide range of cancers. In particular, it is thought that it helps to protect the DNA of cancerous cells. However, the precise role of this protein is not fully understood. To address this question, Brouwer et al. have now identified a new protein that is important for the repair of damaged chromosomes. The protein has been shown to bind to DNA and to other proteins, but it was not clear how it does this. Now, Zhao, Luijsterburg and Zhao have used a combination of genetic and biochemical approaches to study the protein in human cells and found that mutations in one of these proteins can reduce the efficiency of DNA repair in cancer cells by 50%. Further experiments showed that a mutation in another protein known as N-DBD, which binds to the same part of BCRA1, can also cause the cell to lose the ability to repair damaged chromosome repair. These findings reveal a novel protein binding site that allows the cells to use RNA as a substrate to attach DNA to it. Furthermore, these findings highlight the importance of an enzyme called RAD51 for repairing DNA damage. A next step will be to find out how this enzyme works in more detail in future studies.
The shape of a cell depends on the structure of the cell’s cytoskeleton, which is made up of proteins called actin and tubulin. These proteins are arranged in a straight, double helix, while the other two helical helices are attached to each other. In bacteria, a protein called MreB forms pairs of protofilaments that bind to membranes to maintain shape. However, it is not clear how the protein forms these pairs. To investigate this question, Kabsch et al. used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structures of Caulobacter crescentus. The experiments showed that the proteins assemble in pairs in an antiparallel fashion. This is similar to the way that other proteins, such as GTP, are assembled in other organisms. Further experiments revealed that a doublet is essential for the formation of these pair-of-protofils, and that it binds to membrane proteins in the presence of antimicrobial agents A22/MP265. Together, the experiments show that MREB and the anti-oxidant agents are able to bind together and form pairs that are similar in shape to those found in many other bacteria. Furthermore, when the two proteins interact, they can bind close to one another, preventing the membranes from breaking apart. Kaballah-Stabile and Löwe also found that these proteins bind tightly to their membranes, allowing them to be used to treat bacterial infections. Overall, these findings shed new light on how bacteria shape their cells. Future work will also help to develop new drugs that can protect bacteria from bacterial infection.
Flowering plants are able to reproduce normally despite variation in the environment and their genetic make-up. For example, the number of flowers in a flowering plant called Arabidopsis thaliana depends on the size of the flower and its arrangement of four petals. However, it is not clear how this variation is maintained. To investigate this question, Pieper et al. used a technique called quantitative trait loci ( or QTL for short ) to identify the genes that control petal number in different species of flowering plants. This revealed that a gene called APETALA1, which controls the production of certain genes, is responsible for the difference in number between species. In contrast, another gene known as AP1 is found in another species called Cardamine hirsuta. These two species are closely related, but it was not known how they evolved to produce plants with four-petalled flowers, and how these differences are maintained in their natural populations. The next challenge is to find out how the genetic basis of this difference is affected by changes in environmental conditions.
Diabetes is a condition in which the pancreas is unable to produce enough insulin to feed the body. This is caused by a protein called proinsulin, which is made up of a group of molecules called cysteine thiols. Proinsulins are essential for the production of insulin, and they are produced by the cell’s endoplasmic reticulum, where they bind to the sugar molecules that are needed to make insulin. However, it is not clear how this protein is formed. To investigate this question, Wang et al. exposed human pancreatic cells to a chemical called PERK inhibitor. The experiments show that when the cells are exposed to high levels of the hormone, the proteins that make up the protein are folded into disulfide-linked complexes. In the experiments, these complexes were found to be more abundant than in normal human cells. Further experiments showed that the folding of proteins in human islets also causes the development of diabetes in mice. These findings suggest that this is an early event in diabetes that worsens with the onset of type two diabetes.
Heterochromatin is a complex structure of DNA that is made up of a series of proteins called histones. The histone H3K9-specific methyltransferase ( SUV39H ) is involved in the assembly of these proteins. In fission yeast, it is known as the ‘silent’ chromatin, and it has been shown that it can bind nucleic acids to specific regions of the DNA. However, the precise role of this enzyme is not well understood. It was previously thought that the activity of an enzyme called Suv39h1, which is responsible for the production of H1 proteins, was linked to its ability to bind to DNA, but this was not the case. Now, Ishida et al. have used a technique called electrophoretic mobility-shift assays ( EMSAs ) to investigate whether the enzyme could bind DNA via its chromodomain ( CD ). This revealed that a protein called SUV39 h1-CD binds to a region called the pericentromere, where DNA is stored. When the CD was added to the EMSA, this made it easier for SUVs to attach to this region. Further experiments showed that this binding was also important for SuVsH1 to be able to target specific chromosomal regions. These findings suggest that SuVSH has a role in this process. Furthermore, these findings may help scientists to understand the role that DNA plays in DNA assembly.
Grid cells in the entorhinal cortex allow for the precise decoding of position in space. These cells are active during movements of attention, such as moving around a computer monitor. Grid cells also help us to remember where we are when we need to be, and to plan our next move. However, it is not clear whether grid cells can also be activated during covert attention. To answer this question, Killian et al. recorded the activity of 141 neurons in a brain region of two rhesus macaque monkeys performing a task that involves tracking a small dot that moved around the computer screen. The monkeys were trained to respond by releasing a response bar when the dot changed color. This signaled that the monkey was at a choice point. In the experiments, the monkeys had to focus on a dot with a triangular tiling on the screen and then respond to it as it moved. They were then asked to repeat the same task for a second time. When they repeated the task again, they were shown a grid-like representation of their location. It was unclear whether these cells were activated by the movement of eye-movements, or if they responded by responding by moving their gaze to a specific dot. Spatial representations, in particular, of the location of an animal’s gaze, could be useful for remembering and planning.
The human brain is made up of hundreds of thousands of neurons, each of which can be used to study the brain’s responses to pain or stress. This means that it is possible to measure and reproduce the same mouse behavior in multiple laboratories. However, reproducibility has been a problem in neuroscience, particularly for measurements of decision-making in mice. Previous research has shown that mice can learn to make decisions by using visual stimuli. For example, a mouse can detect the presence of a visual grating to their left or right, and report the perceived location with a simple movement: by turning a steering wheel, for example. Mice in different laboratories were trained to perform this task. The experiments involved training 140 mice in which they were asked to choose between two different types of stimuli: the left and the right. When the mice were given a choice between the two stimuli, they chose the one that was most likely to be more likely. In the experiments, mice learned the task by making a series of decisions based on their past successes and failures and on estimates of the likelihood that they would be rewarded for making the correct choice. Overall, the results show that mouse decision making is reproducible across laboratories, which is important because it allows researchers to compare and compare the data and methods available for studying the behavior of different animals. Future studies should use this data to develop new approaches to studying mice behavior.
The digestive system is the most important organ in the body. It is made up of many different types of cells, and each type of cell is able to regenerate its own tissues and organs. However, it is not clear how these cells work together to repair damaged or missing tissue. To address this question, researchers have used a technique called laser-capture microdissection ( or LCM for short ) and RNA-seq to identify the genes and cell types that make up the cells of the planarian flatworm. This revealed hundreds of genes that are involved in regeneration and repair of damaged tissue, including the gut. Furthermore, many of these genes are also expressed by other cells in other organs, such as the brain, intestine and intestine. These findings provide a new way to understand how the intestines regenerate, as well as how different cells respond to changes in their environment. The next step will be to study the role of different genes in this process.
Animals can detect subtle variations in the electrical activity of their environment. For example, the brain pathway that processes electrical signals can switch on and off at different times in response to different stimuli. However, it is not clear how these differences in sensory activity are related to how animals communicate. Carlson, Arnegard et al. have now investigated how different species of mormyrid fish communicate by producing receptors that fire a single, time-locked spike at variable interpulse intervals ( IPIs ). These receptors are clustered in three groups, called rosettes, on each side of the head, back, and underbelly. This means that the receptors of some species are sensitive to changes in electric signals, whereas those of others are not sensitive at all. In contrast, some of these receptors fire spikes at the same time, but not waveforms. The results of this study suggest that these divergent mechanisms may explain the evolution of our ability to sense subtle variation in electrical signal activity. Further work is now needed to understand how the different types of sensory receptors respond to electric stimuli and how they communicate with each other.
Bacteriophage BPP-1 is a short-tailed, dsDNA virus that infects and kills Bordetella species that cause whooping cough in humans and respiratory diseases in other mammals. The virus is able to infect many mammals and viruses, but it is not clear how it can be used as a phage-display system. To find out, researchers have used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of the virus’s genome. This revealed that the genome contains three main structural classes: the major capsid protein ( MCP ) and a small protein called a ‘cement protein” ( CP ). However, it was not known how these proteins interact with each other. Now, Krupovic, Bamford et al. have developed an atomic model that shows the three proteins that make up the head of a bacterium called B-Protein B ( or BP for short ) in a way that is similar to that seen in the jellyroll motif. These two proteins are found in many different types of viruses and are thought to be essential for the formation of phages. In particular, they are known to form a structure called the Jellyroll-like structure, which is also known as the Johnson fold, and is used by many other viruses to make proteins. Together, these findings suggest that a new topology may be the only feasible alternative to the old topological structure.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is a mosquito-borne disease that causes approximately 390 million infections and 10, 000 deaths each year in the United States alone. The disease is caused by a virus called Chikungunya, which is transmitted between mosquitoes and human and mosquito cells. This virus is able to adapt to different environments, but it is not clear how it does so. To investigate this question, Domingo et al. used a technique called CirSeq RNA sequencing to study the viral genomes of infected humans and mosquitos. Using this technique, the viruses were genetically modified to produce different versions of the virus. In the experiments, each virus was exposed to a different host, and each individual virus underwent a series of rounds of infection. Each virus had a unique set of genetic mutations that made it more likely that it would survive in its host’s body temperature, cellular machineries and environment. These mutations were then copied into the DNA of each viral cell line, where they were sequenced to identify the genetic variants that were most likely to occur in a given viral population. Further analysis revealed that the number of beneficial and deleterious mutations in each population varied between the host and the cell lines. However, some of these beneficial mutations did not accumulate under positive selection, while others accumulated under negative selection. Overall, these findings reveal the evolutionary constraints that shape the evolution of viral populations. Future studies are also needed to understand how viruses evolve in different ways.
Membrane is a complex and dynamic landscape that helps to shape how cells communicate with each other. The membrane of a cell contains many different types of signaling molecules, but how these molecules interact with one another remains poorly understood. Now, Lommerse et al. have used a technique called Live-cell single-particle tracking ( spt-PALM ) to study the activity of Ras molecules in U2OS cells. Using this technique, the cells were able to track the movement of proteins and other molecules on the cell membrane. This revealed that a region of the membrane called the ‘molecular domain’ plays a key role in Ras signaling. However, it was not clear how this region is organized, or how it interacts with other proteins. To address this question, they used microscopy to record the movements of KRasG12D, a protein that is involved in signaling in the brain. These images were then used to map how the proteins move and how they are transported to and from the protein. In the future, these findings could help to develop new ways of studying the behavior of protein molecules.
Animals and invertebrates use a process called morphogenesis to determine the shape of the embryo. Morphogens are proteins that are found in many different cell types, including the dorsal-ventral ( DV ) and anterior-posterior ( AP ) axial axes. A protein called Bone Morphogenetic Proteins ( BMPs ) is involved in the development of these axes, and it is important to understand how they work. In vertebrates, the activity of a protein known as a morphogenic gradient is regulated by a network of extracellular regulators. These regulators bind to a receptor called the metalloprotease Tolloid ( Tld ), which is responsible for regulating the signaling levels of many other proteins. However, it was not clear how the gradient was formed. Now, Shilo et al. have used mathematical models to investigate the mechanisms by which a gradient can be formed in zebrafish and other vertebrate embryos. The experiments show that the stem cells that produce the protein in a particular form of protein ( called a ‘morphogen gradient’ ) are active in all the different stages of development. Chordin, Noggin and Follistatin are the main antagonists that block the expression of this protein, but they are also used as ligand antagonists in other animals, such as frogs and fish. This suggests that a third mechanism, a sink, is needed to drive the flow of bMP signals across the entire embryo to the correct location.
Lysosomes are organelles in the cells of the human body. They are important sites for the degradation of macromolecules, such as proteins and nucleosides, which are then transported to the cytosol for anabolic processes. Lysosome proteins are made of a dense layer of carbohydrates attached to a protein called LAMP1, a type of transmembrane protein that is found in many different types of cells. These transporters are involved in a number of different processes, including the destruction of proteins, nucleic acids and oligosaccharides. However, it is not clear how these proteins work. Chapel et al. have now used a technique called proteomics to identify the proteins that are essential for lysome protein transport. The experiments revealed that MFSD1 is a highly glycosylated protein and that it contains a sorting motif needed for it to be sorted to ensure that the protein is sorted correctly. In the experiments, the mice developed a condition called splenomegaly and severe liver disease. This condition is caused by the loss of normal levels of an enzyme called GLMP. It is thought that this enzyme is needed to transport the LMP protein, but it was not known what role it plays in this process. Further experiments showed that a group of other proteins called the major facilitator superfamily ( Mfsd1 ) plays an important role in maintaining a normal level of MFDS1 in LYSOSomes. Furthermore, this protein was found to interact with a subunit of another protein known as MFS1 that was also important for its transport to LMSs. Overall, these findings reveal a tightly linked family of protein transporter proteins. A key challenge for researchers is to understand the molecular details of this complex and how it works.
Microtubule-based transport by the kinesin motor protein is essential for a wide range of cellular processes, including mitosis and neuronal transport. The motor is made up of two parts: one that is strongly attached to the microtubules, while the other is weakly attached. When the motor proteins are active, the two heads of the motors are linked together to form a coiled coil, which allows them to move along a single protofilament. However, it is not clear how these co-ordinated steps are controlled. To investigate this question, Rath and Kozielski used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of a motor domain on a protein called kinein. Using X-ray crystallography, they were able to reconstruct a series of structures that were similar to those seen in previous studies. These structures were then compared with the structures of other proteins that are found in the same family of motors. This revealed that the three-dimensional structures are similar in shape and size, suggesting that these structures may be linked by a specific ‘linchpin’ residue. Further work is now needed to understand how this structure works, and how it can be used as a therapeutic drug target.
Maintaining the essential functions of a cell’s mitochondria is essential for the survival of the cells. Proteins are made from proteins that are misfolded, which can lead to their destruction by other proteins in the cell. This process is known as quality control ( QC ). QC is the process by which proteins are degraded to ensure that they are properly folded. However, it is not clear how QC works in mammals or yeast. To find out, Kowalski et al. studied the degradation of proteins from the outer membrane of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a fruit fly that is thought to be involved in mitochondrial health and well-being. The experiments show that a number of QC pathways are involved, including one called temperature-sensitive ( ts- ) and another called SUM-associated degradation ( MAD ) pathway. Mitochondria are highly sensitive to temperature, but it was not known how these proteins were degraded in yeast, or how they were targeted for degradation by QC. In the experiments, the yeast cells were grown at 25°C for 40 min and then exposed to temperatures that were higher than the normal temperature. These experiments revealed that the temperature sensors were able to detect and degrade the proteins, while the MAD pathways were not. Further experiments showed that this MAD pathway was also found in other cells, such as mammals, yeast and humans. Together, these findings reveal a unique QC pathway that can recognize, degrade, and destroy proteins. It is also possible to identify and remove proteins with the help of other factors that have been previously identified.
In the epidermis, a protein called extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( ERK ) is responsible for controlling the activity of many cells in the body. This protein is made up of a group of proteins called EGF receptors, which are released from the cell membrane and are then released into the tissue. When a cell divides, the signal is sent to another cell in a radial wave that travels from cell to cell. However, it is not clear how this process is regulated in living cells. Now, Kamioka et al. have used a biosensor to image mice that had been genetically engineered to be able to see the signals that are sent from cells to cells as they divide. The experiments revealed that when the mice were exposed to a chemical called mitotic stimulation, they would occasionally appear with bursts of activity that radially propagated from a cluster of cells into a region of the mouse skin. In contrast, when they were treated with a drug, this activity was not seen. Instead, these bursts were seen as a ‘spatial projection’ of radial activity distribution ( SPREAD ), where the activation of an enzyme called 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate ( TPA ) was stimulated in parallel to the growth factor receptor and its cognate ligands ( EGFRs ). Further experiments showed that the spatial projections were associated with the rate of cell division. These findings provide new insights into how cell-to-cell communication is synchronised in cells and tissues.
Cyanobacteria are a photosynthetic bacterium whose physiology is closely related to the 24-hour diurnal cycle. In the laboratory, the cyanobacterial circadian clock is driven by a set of proteins called KaiABC proteins. These proteins are found in many species of bacteria, but it is not clear how these proteins coordinate their activity in different ways. To investigate this question, Kageyama et al. have developed a mathematical framework that can be used to model how the circadian rhythm works in bacteria. The framework is based on a simple mathematical formula, and it can then be reconstituted in a wide range of environments. This allows the model to be applied to bacteria grown in living organisms that are closely linked to light and dark. KaeABC is a protein that is responsible for controlling the activity of many genes, including those involved in the production of oxygen and nutrients. It has been known for a long time that the kaiABC protein’s activity scales linearly with the time of day and night. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms that control how circadian rhythms work in organisms with different days and seasons. Now, S. elongatus is able to track its biological rhythms using a series of LED illumination devices grown on solid media that mimic the light-dark cycles of its host species. Using this model, it was possible to predict the behavior of circadian clocks under many different conditions.
Cardio-vascular diseases and sudden cardiac death ( SCD ) are among the most common causes of death in young people. These diseases are caused by mutations in a gene called Meis1, which is found in many genes. This gene is involved in the development of the nervous system, and it is thought to play an important role in controlling the formation of sympathetic nerves. However, it was not clear how this gene plays a role. Now, Manousiouthakis et al. have shown that the gene that regulates the expression of genes that regulate the activity of these genes in mice leads to changes in how sympathetic neurons develop and how they respond to cardiac events. In the experiments, the mice were grown in an embryo and genetically modified to produce mice that had a mutation that caused the genes to be switched on or off. The mutant mice developed a condition in which the neurons were unable to reach their target organs and died within a few days of birth. Further experiments showed that this was due to the loss of a protein that is essential for the cell's internal organs to work properly. Furthermore, when the mouse neural crest was crossed with a mutant mouse that was genetically engineered to have mutations that reduced the production of proteins that are needed to make these proteins, these mice died prematurely and unpredictably before reaching adult stages of development. Together these findings suggest that mutations can alter the role of this protein in early development and may contribute to sudden death.
Bacteria live in a community lifestyle called biofilms. These communities are made up of two or more layers of biomaterials that are attached to one another, and each grows at a different rate. This process is known as biofilm growth, but it is not well understood how these communities grow and develop. Now, Wang, Zhao et al. have used a bacterium called Vibrio cholerae as a model organism to study how the bacterial community grows and matures. The experiments show that the bacteria can grow at different rates depending on the amount of water they are exposed to. However, it was not clear how this process occurs. Wang and Zhao found that, in addition to being able to control the growth rate of the microbial community, they can also change the shape of its surface. Further experiments showed that these changes are driven by mechanical instabilities, such as wrinkling and delamination. In the experiments, the cells were inoculated onto a substrate that was too high in water and too low in nutrients, which resulted in the formation of blisters that formed at the edge of each cell’s core. When these cells grew on an agar plate, their surface was wrinkled and their surfaces were covered with a layer of matrix components that made them more rigid than the substrate. As a result, these ‘biofilm-substrate-associated bacterial communities grew faster than they had grown before. Furthermore, when the microorganisms grew at an air–liquid interface, there were more wrinkles than there had been before, leading to the development of new cells and new tissues. To test whether this is the case in bacteria that grow on a surface that has been compressed by a nutrient-limited environment, Yang, Chen, Zhaoxing, Li, Meylan, Zhang, Yan, Xu, etc., used the model system to grow a variety of bacteria on surfaces that were not tightly packed by the environment. Each of these bacteria had different properties, including the ability to bend and fold, as well as the strength of their cells. Overall, this work provides a new understanding of how bacteria grow. It may also help us to understand how they adapt to changes in their environment and to improve health and industry.
Neurons are made up of many different types of cells, including the brain, the nervous system and the spinal cord. These cells are also responsible for regulating the activity of a number of genes. For example, a gene called the neuron-restrictive silencer factor ( NRSF/REST ) regulates the expression of certain genes in the neurons. However, it is not clear how these genes are regulated. To investigate this question, Roopra et al. used a technique called gene set enrichment analysis to examine the role of an important transcription factor that regulates gene expression. The experiments showed that when a protein called chromatin was blocked by a drug called kainic acid, this increased the levels of some of the genes that are normally regulated by the gene. In contrast, when the protein was not blocked, some genes were not regulated at all. This suggests that the changes in gene activity that trigger seizures may be caused by mutations in other genes, such as genes for ion channels, receptors, and other crucial components of neuronal function. Roopy et. also found that inhibiting the ability of NRSFs to bind to a specific sequence of target genes led to the loss of only a small subset ( ∼10% ) of those genes being repressed. Further experiments revealed that this was the case for a subset of gene-regulating proteins, which are essential for the cell’s ability to communicate with other cells. Furthermore, these proteins were able to resist the effects of other proteins that were blocked. Finally, in mice that had epilepsy-provoking seizures, they were more sensitive to changes to their genes than those that caused them to become epileptic. Together these findings suggest that gene regulation may play a role in triggering seizures.
Sensory information is processed in many different ways in the brain. For example, light and sound are processed by two types of projection neurons called mitral cells and tufted cells. These neurons are more intrinsically excitable and receive stronger excitation than the inhibitory granule cells of the olfactory system, suggesting that they encode different components of sensory information. However, it is not clear how these neurons work together to encode information about specific stimuli. Now, Gschwend et al. have used a technique called photostimulation to study the activity of two groups of projections neurons in mice. The experiments show that these projections cells are able to discriminate between different stimuli in different concentrations. In addition, they can also inhibit the firing of other neurons that are involved in similar tasks. This suggests that the cells in these parallel pathways may be responsible for discriminating between similar stimuli at different levels of intensity. Further work is now needed to understand how this process works in other brain areas.
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors are the most common type of G protein-coupled receptor ( GPCR ) in the body. They are made up of two parts: an orthosteric site and a site that is located at the extracellular surface of the cell. These two sites are known as orthostomers and oligomers, but it is not clear how they interact with each other. Kruse et al. have now used a technique called FRET-based microscopy to study the interactions between two different types of receptors. The experiments show that the interaction between the two receptors can be positive or negative, depending on how the receptor interacts with the other receptor. In contrast, the effects of a receptor on an oligomer are not known, and the molecular and supramolecular properties of these interactions are unknown. This is partly because it was not possible to predict how these effects would occur in a cell that has not yet reached equilibrium. To address this question, researchers genetically engineered mice to be able to detect the activity of both receptors at one site on a monomer and another site at an alloster site. When the mice were genetically modified to produce mutant mice that lacked the sensor of conformation, they were unable to distinguish the effect of either site from the one that had been engineered to prevent it from being used in experiments. However, when the experiments were used to test the results of this technique, it became clear that these results were not only positive but also that they arose from interactions within the M2 receptor, which is the prototypic model of allostery. As a result, these findings provide a direct demonstration of how muscaric receptors behave in myocardial preparations. A future challenge will be to understand how this is achieved.
DNA damage is the most catastrophic form of DNA damage. The damage to the DNA is caused by a protein called histone H3 lysine 36, which is responsible for repairing the broken DNA ends. However, it is not clear how this protein is involved in the damage response. To find out, Soria et al. used a technique called RNA interference ( RNAi ) to measure the activity of an enzyme called SETD2 in human cells. This revealed that the enzyme is required to activate a gene that encodes a molecule that is essential for DNA repair. In addition to being able to detect and repair the damaged DNA, the enzymes also play a key role in repairing DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ). Previous studies have shown that this enzyme can be activated by other enzymes, but it was unclear whether it also plays a similar role during the same process. Now, Matsuoka and Sato have investigated whether the role of a different enzyme in this process is also played by another gene called p53. These experiments show that P53 is a master guardian of the genome, and that it plays an important role when it comes to repair of D SBs. Further experiments showed that, despite the presence of many other proteins, SETDB2 was not activated in cells that had been exposed to three different drugs. Furthermore, these cells were unable to recognize and rejoin the repaired DNA end, suggesting that SETB2 is needed for this repair to work properly. Overall, this work provides a new way to identify and activate the proteins that are needed to make the repair process more efficient. It may also provide an alternative mechanism for avoiding the need for additional mutations in other genes.
The human immune system is made up of many different types of cells. One type of cell is called the thymus, which is a region of the body that is responsible for the development of all the cells in our body. A protein called Ras guanine is involved in this process, but it is not known exactly how this protein is activated. It is thought that a mutation in a gene called RASGRP1 leads to the formation of a population of T cells that are dependent on B cells to produce proteins. However, it was not clear how the Rasgrp1 protein works in mice. To investigate this question, Iwig et al. genetically engineered mice to have a missense variant. The mutant mice were genetically modified to be able to carry a missing gene. This mutant mouse had a different set of amino acids than normal mice, and they were more likely to develop autoimmune diseases, such as Graves’ disease, or autoimmune arthritis. These mice also had mutations in the gene that encodes a molecule called mTOR, a protein that binds to receptors on the surface of proteins called T cell receptors. In addition, the mutated mice had an increased activity of another messenger diacylglycerol ( or MTOR for short ) called CD44. Together, these findings suggest that the missing protein may be important for controlling the production of these signals. Further work is now needed to understand the role of this gene in human autoimmune disease.
Cancer is the most common type of cancer in the human body. It is caused by mutations in a gene called SWI/SNF, which controls the activity of a protein called chromatin readers. This protein is found in many different types of cells, including the pancreas and the colon. However, it is not clear how these mutations affect the development of new cancer cells. To investigate this question, Saborowski et al. used a technique called RNA interference ( RNAi ) to genetically engineer mice to produce a mouse model of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ). The experiments showed that a mutation in an enzyme called KrasG12D affects the ability of the enzyme to interact with other transcription factors. In addition, this enzyme is also known to alter the expression of genes that control the production of other proteins, such as the transcription factor that codes for proteins. Further work is now needed to understand how this process works.
Many species use social networks to buffer the effects of stress. For example, some species, such as humans, rely on social support and group dynamics to cope with stressful situations. However, it is also important for survival to be able to adapt to changes in the environment. To do so, the hypothalamus releases a hormone called corticotropin releasing hormone ( CRH ) into the brain. This hormone is produced by a group of cells called hypothalamic pituitary cells ( PVNs ), which are involved in regulating the release of hormones. These cells release hormones in response to stress, but they do not release them in a sexually dimorphic fashion. Now, Wamsteeker Cusulin et al. have investigated whether social isolation alters the activity of the nerve cells in PVNs in female mice. The experiments show that isolating the cells from their mates for longer periods of time alters their ability to release the hormone. In the experiments, female and male mice were housed in same-sex groups and isolated from littermates for sixteen to eighteen hours. Mice were then treated with a chemical called metyrapone and then subjected to a series of experiments in which they were exposed to an acute physical stress ( swim ). When the mice had access to drinking water, they had longer first spike latency ( FSL ) and a decrease in their excitability of CRN neurons. Further experiments showed that the same chemical was present in both male and female cells, and that it was not necessary for these changes to occur in either male or female cell types. Furthermore, when the animals were separated, these cells were more sensitive to the stress than those found in male cells. Overall, this suggests that, in comparison to males, females are more likely to respond to stressful stimuli than males. Future work will be needed to investigate whether these findings are consistent with the findings of previous studies.
A protein called hemoglobin ( or Hb for short ) is an important model protein to study how animals adapt to changes in their body size, lifestyle and/or environment. Hemoglobin is a protein that binds to oxygen in the lungs and cooperates with other proteins to deliver oxygen to the body. However, it is not clear how this mechanism works in vertebrates. To investigate this question, Rapp, Yifrach et al. used a technique called the Monod-Wymann-Changeux allosteric model to investigate the molecular properties of the protein. The experiments revealed that the two factors that determine how much and how efficiently the proteins bind to each other are different for different animals. In particular, the molecules binding to different proteins have different degrees of cooperativity and affinity, which are known as the Hill coefficients. This means that when an animal’s body is large, its oxygen is delivered to its tissues in a way that allows it to absorb oxygen more efficiently than it would if it were smaller. Rapp and Yefrich then used the same model and graphed the values of both affinity and coativity of hemophilia to show that these two properties are indeed different in mammals. These findings reveal the evolutionary and physiological mechanisms underlying the evolution of these properties. Further work is now needed to understand how these mechanisms work in humans and other animals, and to develop a better understanding of how they work.
Malaria is an infection caused by a parasite called Plasmodium sporozoites. The parasite infects the skin of the infected animal, which is then infected with malaria. This infection starts with the bite of an infected mosquito, and the parasite then travels through the body to infect the host’s blood vessels. During the infection, the parasites move in a circular pattern, but they are unable to enter the bloodstream. It is thought that this is due to the speed at which these parasites are moving. However, it is not clear how these movements occur. To investigate this question, Ejigiri et al. used microscopy to study the movement of parasites in the blood of infected mice. In the experiments, mice were injected with a drug called anti-CD31. When the drug was injected into the mice, they were able to move faster than normal. Further experiments showed that these mice had two types of motility: high speed and less confinement, while in areas far from blood vessel activity. These mice also had mutations in key adhesive proteins that allow them to travel in more constrained paths. Furthermore, when the drugs were given to mice that had been injected directly into their bloodstream, these animals were less likely to pass through blood-sucking vessels, suggesting that the virus was more restricted in its ability to exit from the dermis. More work is now needed to understand how this happens.
Cells are organized by a structure called the polarity gene, which is responsible for the polarization of the cell membrane. When a cell divides, it switches on a protein called GTPase. This protein is essential for polarization, but it is also important for other functions, such as cell wall growth and cell division. It is not clear how cells can evolve to perform the same biological functions with different proteins. To investigate this question, Kvitek et al. sequenced the genomes of thousands of yeast cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments revealed that the cells evolved to be polarized in a way that allowed them to grow more quickly than their ancestors. However, the mutations that caused the changes in polarization did not occur in all species. Instead, mutations in one gene called BEM1 caused cells to rapidly increase in fitness and then slowly decrease in their fitness. These results suggest that cells are able to adapt to changing requirements and to respond to the chance loss of a particular gene. In the future, these findings could lead to a better understanding of how the evolution of cell polarization and movement occurs.
Many people make choices that enhance their chances of positive reinforcement. For example, when deciding whether to invest in a house or choosing a partner, people often make successive, independent choices about which type of reward they would like to receive. However, these decisions often have lasting consequences, such as when making a decision about whether or not to buy a new car. In many cases, the decision is made in anticipation of receiving a long-term financial return. Yet, it is not clear how the brain processes these choices in the same way. Now, Kolling et al. have investigated this question using a task in which volunteers were asked to choose between two different types of rewards. The volunteers chose between either accepting or rejecting one of the two rewards, or to accept the other reward, and to decide which of these rewards was more likely to be received later in life. When the volunteers made a choice between acceptance or rejection, they had two choices: accept or reject. Accepting the reward and rejecting it were both decisions that resulted in sustained financial returns for many years into the future. Conversely, rejection and acceptance were decisions made only when the participants had already received a reward. These findings suggest that the prefrontal cortex plays a key role in decision-making, but it remains unclear how this process works.
The circadian clock is the biological clock that controls the activity of the body’s genes. The circadian clocks are a group of proteins that are found in the nucleus of a cell, called the pituitary. These proteins are made up of long noncoding RNA molecules called RNA-binding proteins ( or RNAs for short ). When a gene is transcribed, the RNA is copied into a protein called Neat1, which is then passed on to the next gene. This process is known as transcriptional control, but it is not fully understood how these proteins control gene expression. Now, Guillaumond et al. have used fluorescent microscopy to study the expression patterns of many of these RNA proteins. They found that all the proteins involved in gene transcription were retained in their nucleoplasm, while only a small number of other proteins, including four major proteins and a transcription factor called IRAlu, were also retained. However, it was not clear how the nuclear retention of RNA RNA was controlled by the same nuclear bodies. To investigate this further, guillaamond and Fox used a technique called artificial light microscopes to observe the production of mRNA in pituitsary cells. In the experiments, all four proteins were kept in a nuclear body that was arranged in such a way that they were able to retain their RNA in place. Further experiments showed that this was the case for all proteins on the mRNA that had been lost when the gene was disrupted. Furthermore, when a single RNA molecule was inserted into the mitochondria, this RNA retained its RNA for a long period of time. Overall, these findings suggest that the circadian rhythms of cells are regulated by a set of molecular clocks that regulate gene activity at a post-transcriptional level. It is also possible that these clocks may also be regulated in other cells, such as the pancreas, liver and other organs.
Neurons communicate with each other via a series of channels called vesicles. These channels are made up of a protein called Munc13, which is found in the active zone of the neuron. The active-zone protein is responsible for controlling the movement of calcium ions into and out of nerve cells, and for the release of neurotransmitters into the cell. However, it is not clear how this activity is controlled. To investigate this question, Rangaraju et al. studied mice, flies, worms and worms that have mutations that prevent them from being able to produce a mutant version of this protein. This mutant mutant protein was found to have a different role in synapses, but it was not known how it controls the activity at nerve terminals. Now, using a technique called heterologous expression systems to study the effects of these mutations on synapse activity in mice and flies has revealed that a mutation in a gene that encodes the gene for this gene controls how neurons respond to voltage-gated calcium channels. In the experiments, the mutant gene was removed from the neurons and replaced with a modified version that had two basic residues in it that were identical to those found on other mutant proteins. Further experiments showed that this mutant mutation alters the behavior of neurons when they are exposed to high-frequency electrical signals, such as bursts of electrical activity. Moreover, this mutation also alters how the cells respond when the voltage is applied to the nerve cell membrane. Together, these findings show that the mutations in these mutant neurons are a novel form of synaptic modulation that could be used to change the way neurons communicate. Future studies are needed to investigate whether this type of modulation is also possible in humans and other animals.
Plants grow in many different ways. For example, they can grow from small cells in the roots and stems, or from large cells that can expand to over 100 times their original size. These cells are called puzzle cells because they are made of two types of cells, one of which is called lobes and the other called indentations. The shape of these cells depends on the size of the cell wall, and it has been suggested that the shape and function of a puzzle cell are closely related. However, it is not clear how these shapes are formed. To investigate this question, Majda et al. used computer simulations to simulate the shapes of puzzle-shaped cells grown in a plant organ called Arabidopsis thaliana. This revealed that, when the cells were growing in two directions, the outermost part of each cell was larger than the innermost cell. When the growth of this organ was less than 1 centimeter, this made it easier for cells to divide and expand. In the same way, if a cell grows in one direction and expands in another direction, that cell would shrink under the stress produced by the expansion of its outer layer. As a result, cells would become larger and larger, which would reduce the amount of cellulose and other wall material required to maintain the tissue's integrity. Further experiments showed that a mechanism called the ‘lobeyness’ mechanism helps to prevent the formation of such shapes. It was also possible to test this hypothesis by using computer simulation models that simulate how cells grow at the cellular level. By using these simulations in plants and animals that have been genetically engineered to be more flexible than normal, these findings may help scientists to better understand how plants grow and evolve.
Most human genes contain multiple introns and short exons. Each of these is known as a spliceosome, which is made up of a group of proteins called pre-mRNAs. These proteins can be recognized by other proteins, such as the U1, U2, and U3. However, it is not clear how these proteins interact with each other to form the splicesosomes. To investigate this question, Roca et al. used a technique called colocalization single molecule spectroscopy ( CoSMoS ) to study how the two processes work together in human cells. The experiments showed that the cross-intron pathway recognizes and binds to a single RNA molecule, but it does not recognize the other RNA molecules that are present at the same time. In addition, the co-interactions between the different subcomplexes are important for the formation of the new splicing proteins. This is because the interactions between these two proteins are known to be important in the assembly of multi-inucleoproteins. It is also unclear how this process works in humans, where the three-dimensional structure of DNA is poorly understood. Here, S. cerevisiae extracts were grown in a laboratory and used to investigate the mechanisms by which the human nuclear extracts can assemble single pre–mRNA molecules. First, a fluorescent tag was tagged with a protein that is found on the surface of one of three pre mRNA molecules, while another tag is tagged on another mRNA molecule that contains a different protein. Together, these experiments show that two different types of RNA are involved in assembling the pre—splicesome. Further experiments revealed that both the RNA and the tag can interact in different ways, with the first binding occurring at different locations on each mRNA, whereas the second binding occurs at other sites. Understanding the molecular mechanisms behind these interactions could help to develop new treatments for cancer and other diseases that affect the immune system.
Proteins are made of a membrane protein called the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ). The ER is a region of the cell membrane that is responsible for the production of proteins. When a protein is made, it needs to be folded in three places: the cytosolic side, the membrane side and the extracellular side. To fold proteins, proteins must first pass through a process called palmitoylation. This process involves a group of enzymes and chaperones that help the protein to fold. These enzymes are called ubiquitins, which are involved in the folding process. However, when the proteins are not folded correctly, they can be destroyed by other enzymes, such as the enzyme USP19. In the case of ER proteins that are folded incorrectly, this can lead to a disease called Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Regulator ( LRP6 ), a type of cystic fibrosis that causes muscle atrophy in patients with the disease. It was previously thought that the ER was a better place to produce proteins than it is now. Now, Abrami et al. have shown that this is not true. Instead, an enzyme is needed to remove a specific lysine from the E-terminus, and this enzyme helps to ensure that a sufficient number of active proteins reach their final destination. UUPITIN is also a key player in this process, but it was not clear how it controls the activity of these enzymes.
Many people with addictions, depression, and neurodevelopmental disorders have difficulty making decisions. For example, some people may struggle to make decisions when they are available, while others may find it difficult to do so. This is partly because the brain processes that control decision making are different in different people. In addition, it is not clear how sex influences the decision-making process. To address this question, Grissom et al. trained male and female mice on a classic value-based decision task. The experiments showed that both males and females made the same amount of exploration, even if they were more likely to get ‘stuck’ in the task than in stable choices. However, when the mice were given a choice to explore, they learned more quickly than their stable counterparts. These findings suggest that sex may be a major source of errors in decisions, but it remains unclear how these errors are caused by differences in behavior. Using computational tools to quantify the effects of sex differences on decisions made by mice, the researchers used a technique called a Hidden Markov model to measure how well the animals responded to the choices they had been given. When the experiments were repeated, both groups of mice performed better at making choices than the stable ones. Overall, these findings show that the results of these experiments reveal how much sex is involved in decisionmaking. Further work is now needed to understand how this process is affected by sex.
The endoplasmic reticulum is a part of the cell’s endomembrane system. It contains many proteins that need to be moved across or extracted from the membrane. This process is known as retrotranslocation or dislocation. ERAD removes misfolded, unassembled and mistargeted proteins by pulling on polyubiquitinated proteins, which are then degraded by the proteasome. However, it is not clear how these proteins are pulled across the cytosol, or how they are extracted. To find out, Guo et al. used a technique called a reconstituted system of proteins from Saccharomyces cerevisiae to investigate the role of a protein called Cdc48. The experiments showed that the ubiquitin ligase Doa10 is involved in this process, but it was not known how this enzyme works. In the experiments, the proteins were packaged in a way that made it possible for the enzyme to pull on a polymer-embedded protein. When the enzymes were mixed with purified proteins they were able to move the protein across and extract it. These experiments also revealed that this protein is pulled on by a membrane protein that is folded into a “translocase” that pulls on the polymer embedded in the phospholipid bilayer. Further experiments show that a similar protein, called D-4/MARCH6, plays an important role in pulling the transmembane proteins across. Together, these findings reveal how a protease that helps to transport the transporter proteins to the extracellular matrix of cells and animals, and may help to prevent diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.
Embryonic Hedgehog ( Hh ) signaling proteins help to control the development of adult tissues in both invertebrates and vertebrates. These proteins are found in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, which is one of the most common causes of birth defects and cancer. In fruit flies, HH signals to a group of cells at the anterior-posterior border with declining strength from posterior to anterior. This region is known as Cubitus Interruptus ( Ci ), and it is important to understand the molecular mechanisms of this pathway in order to develop new treatments for these disorders. However, it was not clear what role Ci plays in this process. Now, Garcia-Garcia et al. have used a technique called CRISPR-Cas9 to investigate the role of Ci in developing wing discs in flies. The experiments showed that a protein called Escherichia coli ( or Ci for short ) binds to the Ci protein and activates it, but not the full-length Ci or Gli proteins. When Ci is activated, Ci-155 protein levels are elevated to uniformly high levels in anterior wing disc cells, suggesting that it can signal normally in a normal setting. Further experiments revealed that the activity of other proteins, such as PKA and Cos2, is also regulated by Ci. By contrast, the levels of some of these proteins were not regulated in normal conditions. Furthermore, when Ci was activated in response to Ci, this protein was more likely to signal normal wing shape than it would have been in cells that lacked it. Together, these findings suggest that Ci can regulate the production of Hhog proteins in an appropriate way. Future studies will also be needed to test the effects of different proteins on the ability of ci-null cells to communicate with each other.
Sensory information from the body is transmitted through a region of the brain called the dorsal horn, where it is processed by a network of neurons called lamina I and II. These neurons are responsible for transmitting sensory information to higher centers for sensory processing, such as the spinal cord. However, little is known about how these connections are maintained. To address this problem, Peirs et al. used a technique called optogenetics to selectively activate neurons that express the calcium-binding protein calretinin ( CR ). This allowed the neurons to communicate with each other in a way that was not previously known. The experiments showed that the interneurons in this region are involved in signaling to other neurons in the same region. In addition, the researchers found that these neurons were able to send signals to a group of nerve cells that were not excitatory. Further experiments revealed that this group is important for the generation and amplification of pain. Furthermore, it was also possible to detect the activity of calcium ions in these cells, and to activate them in response to light and other sensory signals. Overall, these findings suggest that spinal nerve circuits that are activated by calcium ion channels can be used to generate pain in patients with chronic conditions.
Craniosynostosis is a disorder in which the bones in the face and skull are fused together to form two or more sutures. Carpenter syndrome is caused by a mutation in a gene that encodes a protein called RAB23. This protein is involved in several steps in cell development, including the formation of the suture and the movement of bones. In the early stages of this process, cells called progenitor cells proliferate and differentiate, while the stem cells at the back of these cells divide and divide to make new cells. However, when a cell divides, the cells that make up the cell are unable to divide properly. The resulting defects can lead to a condition called Carpenter Syndrome, which is characterized by the premature fusion of a craniofacial skull and a loss of bone growth. To investigate this, Veistinen et al. created mice that had been genetically engineered to lack the gene for the protein 23. These mice were able to survive to an age where they could be studied in animal models. They were then genetically modified to produce mice with a mutant version of 23 that did not survive until embryonic day ( E ) 18. 5. When the mutant mice survived, they were more likely to develop a severe form of Carpenter’s syndrome than normal mice. Further experiments showed that the mutated mice had a higher level of FGF10 signaling, a signaling pathway that regulates the activity of other signaling pathways, and reduced the levels of an enzyme called pERK1/2 signaling. Furthermore, these mice also showed a reduction in osteoprogenitor proliferation and increased the number of stem cell divisions in their skull. Together these findings suggest that a new role for this protein may be found in future studies.
Genes encode information about the environment in which they are made. For example, a gene called FLOWERING LOCUS C ( FLC ) is made by a protein called Polycomb repressive complex 2 ( PRC2 ). This protein is a key regulator of gene expression states in animals and plants, and it is thought that it can be stored locally in the chromatin environment of individual genes. However, it was not clear whether this memory is stored in a ‘trans memory’ state that is inherited from a single gene. To investigate this question, Yang et al. used a technique called immunoprecipitation to study the expression of two copies of the PolyComb protein in Arabidopsis thaliana. The experiments showed that one copy of this protein was repressed while the other was active. In the experiments, the plants were exposed to prolonged cold exposure to a high concentration of a chemical called diffusible factors ( cis ), which is required for trans memory to be maintained. Further experiments revealed that the same gene in both trans and cis memory can also be copied to produce a different version of another protein, called a fluorescent protein. These experiments show that a specific type of trans protein ( known as a diffuseible factor ) can repress the activity of one of these trans-factors. Furthermore, when a trans factor is present in one trans gene, this repression is maintained for a longer period of time than when the trans marker is inactive. Future studies are needed to test whether the Trans memory system is also able to store the memory of genes that are copied from one gene to the next.
In eukaryotes, the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) processes the vast majority of newly synthesized proteins destined for secretion and insertion into the membrane. The ER is a compartment within the cell that processes all of the newly made proteins. However, it also processes a large number of new proteins that need to be made in order for the proteins to work properly. These proteins are made by a protein called Hsp70, which acts as a chaperone to help the protein to fold into its correct shape. In the ER, a group of proteins called oligomers are formed by an enzyme called a protease that binds to one of these proteins in a process known as the unfolded protein response ( UPR ). BiP is made up of two groups of molecules: active and inactive, and an inactive form. When the enzyme is exposed to a chemical called hexokinase or glucose, this causes the oligomer to bind to the substrate of another protein. This prevents the enzymes that make proteins from binding to their substrates, but it is not clear how this happens. Now, Qi et al. have used a technique called X-ray electrophoresis to study the structure of oligomolecule molecules that form the hemispheres of mammalian and bacterial cells. They found that these molecules have a similar structure to those found in other types of cells, suggesting that they may be able to adapt to changes in the environment in which they are produced. Further work is now needed to understand how these structures work and how they can be adapted to different conditions.
Flexible filamentous viruses are ubiquitous plant pathogens that have an enormous impact in agriculture. These viruses contain several hundred copies of a coat protein ( CP ) that protects a protein called a ssRNA. The CP is arranged in a helical fashion, which allows the virus to bind to the RNA and protect it. Flexible filaments can be found in many different species of plants, but it is not clear how they work together. To find out, Revers et al. used a technique called electron cryomicroscopy ( cryoEM ) to study the structure of Pepino mosaic virus ( PepMV ), a potexvirus from the family Alphaflexiviridae. This revealed that the CP protects the protein, and that it also protects other proteins, such as ribonucleoproteins, that are needed for cell-to-cell movement. In the future, it will be important to understand how these proteins interact with each other to develop new strategies to control the spread of these viruses.
Antibody binds to proteins on the surface of cells. This binding is essential for the immune system to respond to infection. Antibodies can also bind to other proteins, which can help to protect the body against infections. However, it is not clear where the binding sites are on a cell’s surface. It is possible that the location of a binding site can be determined by using a technique called nanometer-scale localization, but this technique is costly, time-consuming, and unsuitable for high-throughput analysis. To overcome this problem, Hauri et al. have developed a new method for detecting the locations of antibody sites on cell surface proteins. The method is based on measuring the average distance between the antibody and a reference surface protein. In the experiments, the method was used to determine the position of an antibody that is bound to a protein on its surface and to identify where it binds. Using a combination of microscopy and computer-based imaging techniques, these methods were able to accurately estimate the positions of the antibodies on their surfaces. These results show that this method can accurately identify the sites of antibodies that are binding to pathogen proteins in a wide range of cellular processes, including immune signalling, cell migration and phagocytosis. Further work is now needed to test the technique in humans and other animals.
The skin is the most complex of all the vertebrates. It is made up of many different layers of cells, including the skin, and is able to respond to changes in oxygen supply. In mammals, for example, the basal layer of the epidermis is highly permeable to oxygen, which helps to increase blood flow and blood pressure. However, it is not clear how this is regulated in mammals. To investigate this question, Cowburn et al. used mice, rats, rabbits, chickens, sheep and humans to study the effects of hypoxia in mice. The experiments show that the amount of oxygen in the blood is controlled by a number of factors. One of these factors is a transcription factor called HIF. These transcription factors are involved in a range of biological processes, but it was not known how they affect the body's ability to regulate blood oxygen levels. This is because it has not been studied in humans or in animals that live in low oxygen environments. Now, he and his colleagues have used mouse skin as a model to investigate how the immune system responds to a hypoxic response. They found that when mice were exposed to high levels of high oxygen they were more likely to experience a tachycardia and heart rate that lasted as long as 24 hr. Further experiments showed that this response was also influenced by other factors, such as how much oxygen was released into the animal's blood and how quickly it recovered. Furthermore, when the animals were removed from the oxygen-deprived environment, they had a greater drop in blood pressures, heart rates and body temperature than those of normal animals. Overall, these findings demonstrate that a central role for the human body’s immune response is important for controlling the response of its own tissues.
Neurons communicate with each other via a network of connections called the dendrites. These connections are made up of two distinct types of neurons, each of which has a specific role in the activity of the brain. One type of neuron is called channelrhodopsin, and it is found in many nerve cells, including the soma and axons. However, it has been difficult to precisely measure the connections between individual neurons. To do so, optogenetics is a technique that uses two-photon excitation of caged neurotransmitters, which can be used to track the movement of a neuron’s electrical activity. This technique is particularly useful for studying how neurons are organized into circuits. It is also possible to study how a single neuron works by focusing on specific regions of its brain, such as the axon and somatic regions. Now, Rickgauer et al. have developed a new technique for imaging single neurons in mouse brain slices. The technique uses a special technique called scanless temporal focusing ( TF ) to selectively target a particular region of an individual neuron. Using this technique, the neurons were able to detect the presence or absence of channels in their cells. In the future, this approach could also be applied to other neurons that are involved in sensory input and production of behavioral responses.
Genes are made up of a series of molecules called transcription factors. Each transcription factor acts in concert to change the structure of the DNA, which is known as chromatin. However, it is not clear exactly how these proteins interact with each other. Chen et al. have now used a technique called single-molecule microscopy to measure the activity of two proteins called Sox2 and Oct4 on the genome of living cells. The experiments show that the proteins bind to specific sites on DNA in a process called ‘transduction’. This process involves a group of proteins that are involved in the transcription of genes. These proteins are known to act in opposite ways to other proteins, but it was not known how they do this. To investigate this question, Chen and colleagues used two different methods to study the interactions between the different proteins. First, they measured how much energy was being spent on each protein, and then compared this to the amount of energy being consumed by the protein. Then, using a variety of techniques, the experiments showed that both proteins were able to bind at the same time to different DNA sites. In other words, when a protein binds to a specific DNA site, its DNA is bound to that site. When this happens, a region of DNA called the cell nucleus ( or TF ) switches between two distinct states of binding: one in which it binds first to DNA and the other to RNA. Both of these states are likely to be conserved by a mixture of positive and negative energy expenditure. As a result, these findings provide new insights into how genes are regulated. Future work will be needed to understand how this process works and to develop new methods for studying it.
The immune system is responsible for detecting and responding to harmful bacteria and viruses, and it has been shown that it can detect and respond to potentially harmful compounds. However, it is not clear whether the nervous system can also detect harmful substances before they are exposed to them. To investigate this question, McMahon et al. used a technique called proboscis extension reflex ( or TRPA1 for short ) to measure the responses of nerve cells in Drosophila melanogaster, a fruit fly species that is closely related to the bacterium Gram-negative bacteria. This revealed that flies detect bacterial endotoxins lipopolysaccharides ( LPS ) when they eat food contaminated with E. coli. In the experiments, the flies were able to avoid eating food that contained the bacteria, but they also avoided eating foods that were not contaminated. The experiments also showed that the neurons in the nerve cord of the fly’s forebrain are sensitive to LPs. These findings suggest that these neurons detect the harmful chemicals that are present in food. Further experiments are now needed to find out whether these cells are activated by the same chemical that triggers the immune response.
The immune system needs to generate sufficient numbers of mature T cells to mount effective adaptive responses against a diverse range of pathogens and antigens. To do this, the body must produce sufficient T cell receptors, which are produced by specialized cells in the thymus. These receptors can then be switched on or off by other cells, such as the immune cells that carry out their roles. However, it is not clear how these receptors are regulated. One way to understand this process is to look for mutations in a protein called Zfp335, a zinc finger protein that is found in mouse embryos. This protein is essential for the development of T lymphocytes, but it was not known how it regulates the production of the protein. Now, Klein et al. have identified a mutant mouse mutant that harbors a mutation in this protein, known as bloto. Bloto is a mouse model of a type of immune cell that has been shown to have a developmental defect that prevents it from becoming mature. The mutant mice also lack a gene for a transcription factor called Ankle2. Further experiments revealed that this gene is mutated in mice that have been genetically engineered to produce a different form of ZFP335 than normal mice. Furthermore, this mutant mutant had a lower number of zfp334 target genes, suggesting that the mutation may be a result of altered selection and maturation. In the future, these findings could lead to new treatments for autoimmune diseases and other diseases.
Genes are made up of a series of molecules called RNA molecules. Each of these molecules is bound by a protein molecule called an mRNA molecule, which is then used as a template to make proteins. In bacteria and archaea, the mRNA molecules are bound to each other by proteins called ribonucleic acids ( or RNAs for short ). However, it is not clear how these interactions affect the amount of mRNA that is produced. To address this question, Boël et al. have used a technique called minimum free energy ( MFE ) to measure how much mRNA is used in different species of bacteria. The experiments show that the levels of the most highly conserved mRNA and mRNAs are much higher in bacteria than in controls. This suggests that there is a strong selection for the least abundant mRNA:ncRNA interactions, and that it can be both predicted and controlled. Further work is now needed to test whether this is the case for all species.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by the loss of motor neurons in the upper and lower motor neuron. The disease is caused by a group of neurons called neuromuscular junctions ( NMJs ) that connect the muscle fibers to the brain. These neurons lose their NMJ within a short period of time, but they are still able to form new connections with other neurons. However, it is not clear whether this process is the first manifestation of a disease-modifying mechanism. To address this question, Li et al. studied the activity of single motor-units in mice that had been genetically engineered to have ALS. This revealed that after a few weeks, the neurons that make up the neuron die and the nerve fibers that they innervate are replaced. In the next three months, these neurons will be replaced by new neurons, which will eventually replace the old ones. Further experiments showed that the same neurons die asynchronously in ALS mice, and that this happens in a similar way to a nerve injury in Parkinson’s disease. Furthermore, when the mice were exposed to drugs that could treat the disease, they were more likely to die of ALS than in normal mice. Overall, this suggests that ALS is an early disease that can be treated by treating it with a drug.
Adjuvant tamoxifen has been used for more than 40 years to reduce the risk of breast cancer recurrence by up to 40%. However, it has also been associated with side effects, including hot flashes, changes in bone density, and fatigue. The hormone-responsive cells in the hypothalamus and preoptic area of the brain are highly enriched for estrogen receptor alpha ( ERα ) signaling, a signaling molecule that helps the body to regulate the levels of estrogen in its cells. This signaling pathway is important for the development of new treatments for breast cancers, but it is not clear how it mediates the effects of this treatment. Now, Gierach et al. have used a technique called cryo-sequencing to study how estrogen receptors in different types of cells are regulated in mice. These experiments revealed that mice that received a drug that inhibits the activity of a hormone called estrogen-receptor alpha were more likely to experience changes to their body temperature and body weight. Further experiments showed that these changes were dependent on a gene that is involved in estrogen signaling. In addition, these findings suggest that the hormone is activated by a protein called ERβ, which is a transcription factor that plays a key role in regulating the expression of hormone receptors. Furthermore, this protein is found in many different cell types, suggesting that it may be important to understand the mechanisms that mediate these effects.
Listeria monocytogenes is a food-borne pathogen that can cause infections in humans and pregnant women. The bacterium is able to survive and replicate in epithelial cells, but it can also enter the bloodstream and cause septicemia and other infections. In humans, the immune system is activated by a signaling pathway called the cytosolic surveillance pathway. However, it is not clear how this pathway works. Now, Zhao et al. have used a technique called stable isotope labeling in tissue culture to reveal that a protein called ISG15 is present in nonphagocytic cells. This allows the protein to be switched on and off in response to infection. When the bacteria escape from the phagosome, they activate an interferon-stimulated gene, which triggers a cascade of events that disrupt the cell’s innate immune response. These events can be triggered by the presence of other proteins, such as cytokines known to counteract infection, or by genes that are activated during the infection of the host cell. Further experiments showed that when a cell is infected with Listeriosis, an enzyme called STING ( which senses bacterial DNA and signals ) triggers the activation of a pathway that regulates the activity of cytokine signaling. Importantly, when the cells were exposed to the virus, this protein was switched off, and it was not known whether it had any effect on the response of normal cells or whether this was due to a process known as the “cytoplasmic surveillance” pathway ( or CSP ). Zhao and colleagues then used this technique to identify the proteins that could be responsible for the protective effect of infection and to investigate whether the same mechanism is also found in other types of immune responses.
Molecules are made up of many different types of molecules, each with its own unique properties. One way to study these molecules is to use a technique called single-molecule Förster resonance energy transfer ( smFRET ). This technique is a powerful tool for studying the structure and interactions between different molecules. However, it is not a direct imaging modality or data treatment for biomolecular dynamics. Instead, the technique can be used to analyze large amounts of data from raw images. The technique relies on a combination of algorithms and machine learning to make predictions based on the data. In the past few years, researchers have developed a new method that can analyze a large amount of raw data, but it was not possible to do this in real time. Now, Hohlbein et al. have created a free-to-use, open-source software that combines the best of both existing and new techniques to produce a fully automated analysis software. It is the first time that a computer has been trained to perform this type of analysis, and it has the potential to be widely used in the field of structural biology. Moreover, this software is free to download and use and is available for anyone with limited programming skills to easily use.
Proteins called Polycomb repressive complex 1 ( PRC1 ) are essential for the development of the human embryo. These proteins are made up of a protein called SCML2, which is found on the surface of DNA in mammals and plants. However, it is not clear how this protein is involved in gene regulation. To investigate this question, Lecona et al. used a technique called RNA immunoprecipitation ( RIP ) to look for proteins that are not stable components of known polycomb complexes. The experiments revealed that a group of proteins known as SCM binds to a region called the RNA-binding region ( or RBR ) that is responsible for binding to the DNA. This region is also known to bind to other proteins, such as RNA helicase MOV10, and is thought to regulate the activity of certain proteins in the cell. In mammals, this region has been shown to be important for controlling the expression of genes, but little is known about how it works in humans and other mammals. Now, Kaneko, Yap, Wang, Rinn and Kassis have used RIP to identify a new protein that plays a key role in this process. SCMP is a homolog of Drosophila scM, a species of fruit fly that has a large number of copies of its genetic material, including DNA, RNA and proteins. It was also found that the protein also interacts with another protein, called a ‘RNA binding region’, that helps to control the production of specific DNA sequences. Further work is now needed to understand how the proteins interact with each other in different contexts.
Ribosomes are a part of the cell’s genetic code, and are responsible for controlling the expression of many genes. The ribosome is made up of a protein called SecM, which is a secreted protein with 170 amino acids in length. When a gene is translated into a new protein, it must be translated to produce the new gene. This process takes place at different stages in the translation process. For example, when the mRNA is transcribed into the protein SecA, the RNA molecule that secA is sent to the correct mRNA molecule. However, this process does not always take place in a single place. Instead, a process called stalling can occur at distinct stages. In the case of Escherichia coli, for instance, an exit tunnel is used to stop the transcription of genes from being translated, but it is not clear how this happens. Now, Voorhees et al. have used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to analyze the structure of two distinct forms of stalled mRNA. These two forms are thought to be linked together by a series of interactions between the end and end of secM and a peptidyl-transferase center, both of which are important for the production of proteins. Together, these findings reveal a complex of molecular mechanisms that can be controlled by two different mechanisms. One of these mechanisms is the presence of an end-to-end region called the “exit tunnel”, where the peptide-bond forms a bond with the newly translated protein. Further experiments showed that this region is also active in two other forms, one in post-state and the other in hybrid rotated state. Moreover, in both cases the exit and exit regions are active at the same time, allowing the release of new mRNA molecules from the region that is active during translation. Furthermore, as a result of this work, researchers are now able to understand how these two mechanisms work together to control gene expression.
In the eyes of people with long-term vision, the retina is stretched at the back of the eye. This is known as the foveal center, and it is thought that this stretch is caused by retinal stretching. However, it was not clear how this stretching affects cone density in living eyes. To investigate this, Agaoglu et al. used a new generation adaptive optics scanning laser ophthalmoscope to image cones at and near the focal point of each eye of 16 subjects. The images were then compared to the images taken in the previous studies. These results show that myopes generally have the smallest number of cones within a fixed area, in square mm. In contrast, shorter eyes have larger cones in their front and back. Further experiments showed that these smaller cones are more spaced out in longer eyes than in shorter ones. Overall, these results suggest that a longer eye is more likely to be able to sample the field of vision than a shorter one. Future studies will investigate whether this is the cause of myopia.
Pneumococcus pneumoniae is a bacterial pathogen that can cause pneumonia, otitis media and meningitis. The disease is caused by a bacterium that lives in the nasopharynx of infants, but it is not known how long this time is spent in this niche. It is thought that the duration of the disease depends on the bacteria’s genetic diversity. However, it was not clear how much of this variability is related to the bacterial genotype. Now, Chaguza et al. have used a mathematical model to calculate the length of time that a bacteria can spend in a nasal cavity. Using this model, they identified a range of genetic variants that are associated with different bacterial species. These variants were then compared with the genetic sequences of different bacteria. This revealed that, in some cases, the number of bacteria that could infect a child was more than 70%, whereas in others, less than 5%. In the future, these findings could be used to develop new treatments for pneumococcal disease in low-income settings.
Cardiac repolarization is determined in part by the slow delayed rectifier current ( IKs ), which is produced by a potassium channel called KCNQ1. KCNE1 acts as a voltage-gated ion channel in the heart, and is responsible for controlling the speed of the current at high heart rates. However, it is not clear how this process works. To investigate this question, Werry et al. used a technique called total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy to count the number of β-subunits in a single cell. The experiments revealed that two of these β subunits are present on the cell surface, while a third subunit is present at the outside of each channel. In addition, the experiments also showed that the α and β of a protein called Kv7. 1 are linked to one or four other β proteins, but it was not known how they interact with each other. This suggests that there is no intrinsic mechanism that limits the association between the β and α proteins. Instead, this is the result of an interaction between two different types of beta proteins: one called EQQQ and four ( which are also known as EQ1 ). When combined with another β protein, KCNNQ has a flexible structure that allows it to be connected to the alpha protein and the beta protein to bind to it. These findings suggest that a cooperative mechanism prevents the interaction of two or more α, two, three, four, five, six or even four alpha, beta, β, alpha and 4 alpha proteins from the same protein. Further work is now needed to find out if this mechanism is also present in other tissues, such as the myocardium and ear.
Zebrafish are a powerful model species for regenerative medicine because they are able to regenerate complex structures such as organs, tissues, and organs. However, it is not clear how these tissues are regenerated. To investigate this question, Hasegawa et al. used a technique called myeloid-defective zebra fish to study how the cells in the tissue regenerate after tissue amputation. The experiments revealed that the myelinoid cells that are responsible for the regeneration of the injured tissue are the main source of a protein called interleukin 1 beta ( il1b ). This protein is produced by a group of cells called epithelial cells, which are also involved in tissue regeneration. These cells also produce reactive oxygen species and other antibacterial proteins, but it was not known how they regulate the activity of these cells. Hosegaw et. also found that a type of immune cell called the epidermal cells—which are thought to be immune to inflammation—produces an inflammatory response called apoptosis. In addition to this, the eukaryotic cells produce a signaling pathway that regulates the production of anti-inflammatory cytokines. Further experiments showed that this pathway is regulated by the immune cells surrounding the damaged tissue and by macrophages in response to tissue injury. By studying the effects of this signalling pathway on the cell's response during tissue damage, this work provides a new way to understand the mechanisms that underlie tissue loss. Future work will focus on identifying the genes and signaling pathways that control the activation of inflammatory responses.
Many processes in biological cells depend on interactions between macromolecules and nucleic acids. For example, when a protein binds to a ribonucleic acid, it can diffuse up to 100-fold faster than if the protein is bound to the ribosome. This is because the molecular motion in the cytoplasm is diffusive, and so it is important to determine the diffusion coefficients of the proteins. The diffusion coefficient is a measure of how quickly a cell can move in response to changes in its environment. In the bacteria Escherichia coli, Lactococcus lactis and Haloferax volcanii, a type of bacterium known as E. coli that produces many types of proteins, these proteins are much more sticky than non-protein molecules. However, this is not the case in all bacteria. To investigate this question, van den Berg et al. used a technique called surface-modified fluorescent proteins ( or FPs for short ) to study how proteins diffuse and how they interact with their surroundings. These experiments revealed that in E. coli the flow of protein molecules is much slower than in other bacteria, which may explain the difference in mobility between the two species. Further experiments showed that the concentration of positive and negative proteins on the surface of these two bacteria was much less than positive ones. Furthermore, positive proteins were less likely to diffuse than negative ones, suggesting that they are less sticky. Overall, the findings shed new light on how diffusion is influenced by the environment and may help us to understand how cells work.
Plumpworms are flatworms capable of regenerating from wounds that result in tissue loss. This is because they have a population of adult dividing cells called neoblasts, which are able to form new tissues and repair damaged organs. However, it is not clear how these cells work together to trigger regeneration. Wenemoser, Reddien et al. have now used a technique called quantitative PCR to identify a protein that is required for the regeneration of cells in planarians. The experiments show that the proteins that are needed for regeneration are found in the cells that divide to produce new cells. These cells are called follistatin homologs, and they are produced at different levels in different parts of the body. In the absence of tissue, the cell divides to create new cell types, called mitotic cells ( or ‘missing-tissue’ cells ) that can be used to replace damaged tissue. When a wound is caused by a major injury, a cell that normally divides into two distinct types of cell becomes inactive and is replaced by another cell type called activin. Further experiments showed that a gene called Smed-follistin inhibits the activity of two other proteins needed to activate regeneration after an injury. Together, these findings suggest that this protein regulates the processes that lead to the formation of missing tissues. Future work will focus on understanding how cells respond to injuries that cause tissue to be absent.
Mutations in a gene called mismatch repair ( MMR for short ) can cause cancer cells to fail to replicate correctly. This is known as ‘microsatellite instability’ ( or “MSH2” ), which is caused by mutations in the genes that make up the DNA replication errors. In some cases, these errors can lead to the formation of tumors that are resistant to treatment. However, it is not clear how this happens. Now, Palles et al. have used a technique called whole-genome sequencing to examine the genomes of endometrial ( EM ) or colorectal ( CM ) tumors. The experiments revealed that a substantial fraction of the genetic variation in these tumors arises from mutations that occur in MMR genes, but not in other genes. Moreover, a large set of genetic markers were identified that could be used to detect the presence or absence of these mutations. These markers could help to identify which mutations are responsible for the spread of diseases, such as Lynch syndrome, and which are the most common causes of cancer. Furthermore, the marker set was able to distinguish between MMR-deficient tumors and non-MMR tumors, suggesting that it may be possible to develop new treatments for these diseases.
Photodimerizers are small molecules that are fused together to form a molecule called a dimer. Photodimers can be used to manipulate a wide range of biological processes. For example, when light is applied to a protein, it can change the activity of the protein in the cell. However, light can also alter how the proteins interact with other proteins, which can lead to the formation of new connections between the two proteins. In the laboratory, a fluorescent protein called the Neurospora crassa photoreceptor is fused to one of two different components, called Magnets. The two components are very small, but they are able to interact in a very precise way. To test this, Benedetti et al. engineered a pair of light-inducible dimers to fuse to each other. This made it possible to study how light interacts with proteins in different parts of a cell, such as the outer mitochondrial membrane and the cytoplasm, and to reconstitute the three-dimensional structures that make up the surface of cells. These structures were then tested in cells grown in small amounts at low temperatures ( 28°C ) for 12–24 hr. They showed that these structures could be modified to allow them to bind to different proteins at the same time. Further experiments revealed that, in addition to binding to specific proteins with a single excitation wavelength, they could also be activated by a small molecule that is much smaller and less sensitive to light compared to other light sources. Furthermore, the experiments show that the new structures can rapidly and reversibly recruit proteins to subcellular organelles, where they can then be switched on and off at different temperatures. Together, these findings provide a new way to test the effectiveness of photodemers in animals and humans.
Ribosome stalling is one of the most common causes of neurodegeneration in humans and other animals. Ribosomes are made up of a protein called messenger RNA ( mRNA for short ), which is then translated into proteins. However, it is not clear exactly how ribosomatization is triggered during translation. To investigate this question, Hoechst et al. studied the brain of mice that had been genetically engineered to be unable to translate mRNA into protein. The experiments revealed that the mRNA translation process is stalled at the 5’ end of an mRNA molecule, and that this process triggers a process known as the integrated stress response ( ISR ). This process involves a group of proteins called the eIF2α kinase that is responsible for the elongation of mRNA molecules. These proteins are then switched on and off in the mouse brain, but it was not known how they are activated in this way. In addition, the experiments showed that a key transcription factor called GCN2 plays an important role in regulating the activation of this signaling pathway. GTPBP2 is also involved in activating this pathway in mice with a mutation in a gene that encodes the gene for an enzyme called ATF4. Previous studies have shown that when a mutant mouse is exposed to high levels of oxidative stress, this protein is activated and the protein stops translating mRNA. Further experiments show that an increased level of phosphorylation of ATF2 increases the activity of other transcription factors that regulate the initiation of translation in these mice. Furthermore, these findings highlight the importance of understanding the molecular mechanisms that trigger the process of transcription.
Being tall is one of the most heritable human traits, and it has been linked to a number of social, economic and political factors. For example, people born between 1896 and 1996 were the tallest people on the planet, while those born in the 1960s and 70s were among the shortest. However, it is not clear how tall people are over the past century, or how much they have changed over their lifespans. Martorell et al. used data from more than 18. 6 million people to estimate the height difference between men and women in 200 countries. The results show that women and men have been growing taller in recent decades, even though they were born around the same time as men a century ago. This suggests that the difference is due to social factors, such as age, education and social position. In addition, the differences in height in some countries have increased over time, but not in others. These findings are consistent with the findings of previous studies, which have looked at the world’s population-based measurements of adult height for over 20, 000 people over 100 years. They also showed that men who grew taller over this century were more likely to live in countries where they had higher education or higher social status than their female counterparts. Overall, these findings suggest that height has changed substantially and unevenly in many countries, despite substantial changes in social and economic factors that affect health and longevity.
Opioid addiction is a global public health emergency. Over 400, 000 people in the United States died from an opioid overdose in 2017, reaching a staggering 130 deaths per day. Opioids are widely used to treat opioid addiction, but they can also cause respiratory depression, which can lead to death. One of the most common causes of death from opioid overdoses is the loss of a receptor called Oprm1. This receptor is found in a number of brain regions, including the brainstem and the central nervous system. However, it is not clear which of these brain areas are responsible for the effects of opioids. To address this question, Pisanski and Pagliardini studied mice that had been injected with opioids, and found that only 70–140 neurons in this region were involved in their breathing. These neurons are not required for opioids to cause the breathing to slow down. In addition, the neurons that produce the receptor were not found at the same time in these mice, suggesting that these neurons do not contribute to the symptoms of opioid withdrawal. The next step will be to identify which brain sites are involved and how they are affected by the opioid drug.
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is a small satellite RNA virus that infects human liver cells. The virus can also infect human cells, which can lead to liver failure and liver cancer. However, it is not clear how the virus enters the liver and how it can infect the human body. Previous studies have shown that a protein called the large envelope protein can bind to the small envelope proteins of both viruses. This protein is thought to be a key determinant for the entry of the two viruses, but it has not been confirmed whether it also interacts with other proteins in the host’s liver. Now, Schulze et al. have used a technique called photo-cross-linking to identify the protein that binds to both the H and HDV proteins. Using a combination of biochemical approaches and biochemical assays, the experiments revealed that this protein interacts specifically with a molecule called sodium taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide ( NTCP ), a transporter predominantly expressed in human hepatocytes. In addition, removing the amino acids 157–165 of this transporter from the mouse liver showed that it was a functional receptor for both virus and HV infection. Further experiments confirmed that the receptor-binding region of pre-S1, also known as the ‘nucleotide binding partner′, is involved in binding to a specific protein on the cell surface. These results show that NTRP binds specifically to one of these proteins, and that blocking the expression of a gene that encodes the gene for this receptor is important for HIV and hepatitis B infections in humans and chimpanzees.
Sepsis leads to a substantial global health and economic burden. Sepsis is caused by sepsis, a bacterial infection that causes septic patients to die every 6 s. In the United States alone, nine people die each year, and nine of those individuals are also infected with a bacterium called L. monocytogenes. The infection is triggered by an immune response called cytokine storm, which is activated by the body’s own immune system. However, it is not clear how these immune cells respond to the infection. To address this question, Jensen et al. used mice to study the immune responses of patients who had been exposed to an infection with the cytokines storm. These experiments showed that the response of the cells that survive the inflammation storm is similar to those of healthy individuals. This suggests that these cells may be able to respond more quickly to infection than those that do not survive. Furthermore, the amount of memory CD8 T cells in the blood of these patients is much higher than in healthy people, suggesting that they are still at increased risk for mortality, even if they have been treated with early treatment. Further experiments revealed that when a person is infected by a bacteria or virus, they lose the ability to recognize the presence of a specific antigen in their blood. Moreover, when the bacteria and virus re-encounter with their cognate antigen, these T cell cells are less capable of responding to this antigen. Finally, if and to what extent these new cells recover from the inflammatory response, this could lead to long-term health problems. Future studies are needed to understand how this process works in humans and other animals.
The human genome contains roughly 17% of our genetic material. The majority of this DNA is made up of single-strand DNA, which is the first strand of DNA to be transcribed. However, some of the DNA can also be inactivated by mutations. This is known as “long INterspersed Element-1”, or L1 retrotransposition, and it is thought that this is due to mutations in the gene that encodes a protein called APOBEC3A. In humans, this protein is active in a number of different ways. One of these is by deaminating DNA that arises during the process of inserting a new DNA strand into the cell’s DNA. These DNA strands are then exposed to a molecule called uridine nucleotides ( or UTRs for short ) that can be used as a template to repair DNA damage. Previous studies have shown that the enzyme that codes for this enzyme can inhibit the activity of LINE elements, but it was not clear how it could do so. Now, Levin et al. have used a technique called cell assays to study the effects of A1A on the ability of a cell to detect and remove L2 elements from its DNA in cultured cells. They found that a cytidine-deaminase inhibitor protein ( UGI ) is one of seven enzymes that inhibits the formation of L3 elements in human cells, while another eight enzymes are involved in this process. Together, these findings provide a better understanding of how the A2A enzyme is able to block the assembly of long-intersperated elements.
Sensory experience plays an important role in shaping neural circuits in mammals and other animals. For example, the visual system is made up of neurons that respond to changes in sensory experience by changing their activity levels. However, it is not clear how these changes affect the activity of these neurons. Now, Mardinly et al. have investigated the role of a molecule called GTPase Rem2, which is involved in the formation of visual circuits. The experiments show that mice lacking the gene for a protein that encodes the Ras-like protein are less responsive to visual stimuli than normal mice. This suggests that this is due to a process called ‘Ocular dominance plasticity’, in which the neurons switch on or off their excitability and switch back on their electrical activity in response to sensory experiences. Further experiments showed that the levels of the protein were altered in mice that lacked this gene. In the experiments, these mice were exposed to light and were unable to move their eyes towards the left or right side of their vision. These mice also showed increased spontaneous firing rates, suggesting that they had lost a key molecule that regulates how the brain works. Together these findings suggest that a group of molecules known as REM2 regulates this process in a way that is similar to that found in other molecules that regulate other aspects of sensory perception. MARDINLY and his colleagues then used a technique called immunoblotting to study the effects of this change in activity on the mouse visual circuit. They found that when the mice did not lack the enzyme, they were more likely to produce more of it in their visual cortex than they did when they received light. By contrast, when a mouse lacked the molecule, their brains were less able to process the information they needed to make decisions about how to use the eye. Overall, this work provides a new model for understanding how visual experience influences the development of our visual systems. Future work will focus on identifying the next steps in this research.
Neurons and other cells can sense the magnetic field that surrounds them, and they can use it to control their activity with ease. However, it is not clear how magnetic fields interact with biological molecules and cells. To investigate this question, Stanley et al. used a technique called magnetosensation to study the properties of a protein complex that acts like a compass needle to guide a bacterium through the muck at the bottom of the cell. The experiments show that the protein is made from a molecule called ferritin, which is a type of magnetite that is found in many different types of bacteria. In the experiments, the proteins were attached to an ion channel protein called TRPV4 and then tugged on it by a magnetic force. This tugging on the magnetin made the molecule move in a way that made it move along the field lines. But it was not known how this was possible, or how it could be used to manipulate the activity of other molecules in the same way. It is also unclear how magnetism works in animals and how the cells respond to this kind of magnetic energy. Stanley and co. now propose a new method to use magnetically sensitive cells in which the molecules are pulled in different directions by different magnetic forces. Using this method, they found that, at room temperature, a single molecule of iron can be pulled into a region within a cell called the cytoskeleton. When the iron is heated to a high enough temperature that it can open up a channel, this channel opens up, allowing the ions to flow in. These results suggest that this is the only way to make cells more sensitive to magnetic energies. A future challenge will be to find out more about the mechanisms that might be involved in this process.
Stem cells can self-renew, differentiate, or enter quiescence. When a cell divides, the stem cells divide to form a new daughter cell, called a ganglion mother cell ( GMC ). However, it is not clear how this process works. Drosophila neuroblasts are a model system for studying stem cell activity in animals. They are found in fruit flies and other mammals, and they are thought to be involved in the development of new tissues and organs. One way to study the activity of these cells is by studying how they switch between differentiating and dividing states. A protein called Miranda ( which is also known as Prospero ) controls the formation of the daughter cells. This protein is produced by a group of cells called neural progenitors, which are made up of a scaffolding protein and a gene that is transcribed into a transcriptional repressor. These cells are able to differentiate and divide, but it remains unclear how these pathways work. To investigate this question, Tsuji et al. used a technique called immunofluorescence staining to measure the levels of an RNA molecule that surrounds the neuroblast nucleus. The experiments show that when the Neuroblast precursor protein Miranda is detected in a region called the nucleus, a protein that makes up the cell’s DNA is released into the cytoplasm, where it forms a unique molecular profile. Further experiments showed that the level of this protein was high enough to distinguish between the two types of neuroplasts: low enough for them to become pluripotent, high for dividing and low for differentiation. In contrast, low levels were observed in mutant neuroflasts that lacked the ability to divide and differentiate. Finally, these findings suggest that a pulse of low level nuclear energy is required to drive the proliferation of mutant Neuroblast cells, whereas high levels are required for the differentiation process.
HIV is an enveloped virus that carries its RNA genome and associated viral proteins inside a protein shell called the capsid. When the virus enters the host’s body, it releases the viral DNA into the cytoplasm, where it is packaged into double stranded DNA. In order to establish infection, the capid needs to be able to release its DNA in the correct place and time. This process is known as “uncoating”, and it involves a process called ‘unzipping‘, in which a viral protein is released from the cell membrane and then disassemble into two-dimensional structures called capsids. However, there is no way to precisely follow this process. Now, Francis et al. have used a technique called single-molecule fluorescence microscopy to observe the uncoatings of hundreds of individual viral particles in a single experiment. The experiments show that a molecule called PF74, which binds to a group of proteins called arginine clusters, slows the disassembly process and prevents the particles from being disassembled. Further experiments showed that the enzymes involved in disassembling the viruses are also responsible for the assembly of the proteins and other molecules that are needed for HIV to enter the body. These findings suggest that different enzymes and drugs may influence how HIV is disorganized. Future work will be needed to understand how these enzymes are regulated and how they can be controlled by different regulators.
Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy in women. It is caused by mutations in a gene called cJUN NH2-terminal kinase ( JNK ) signaling pathway. This pathway is made up of a number of genes that are involved in the production of proteins. However, it is not clear how these mutations contribute to breast cancer development. To find out, Garraway et al. used a technique called RNA sequencing to examine the genetic information of breast tumors. The analysis revealed that mutations that increase the risk of developing breast cancers were associated with the loss of the pathway’s ability to promote tumor growth. These mutations caused the formation of new tumors in breast cells, which caused them to become more aggressive and aggressive. In addition, the mutations also increased the likelihood that the tumor would develop into a new type of cancer. Further analysis of human breast tumor genomic DNA showed that a protein called jNK promotes tumor development by activating a transcription factor called AP1 ( which is responsible for signaling ). Furthermore, mutations were found in other proteins that help the cell to grow and divide, such as the gene that encodes an enzyme called CDH1 and the protein that codes for AP2. Together, these findings suggest that this protein plays a key role in controlling the growth of tumors, but it remains to be seen whether it also promotes the development of other cancers.
Cilia are the organelles that make up the body of a cell. The cilium is made up of many different types of cells, and it is important to understand how cilia work in different cell types. For example, a protein called oxytocin, which is found in many animals, is required for the cile to work properly. However, it has not been well understood how the activity of this protein is regulated. Kumar et al. have now identified an enzyme called peptidylglycine α-amidating monooxygenase ( PAM for short ) that is involved in the production of peptides and other molecules that can be transported from the inside of the cell to the outside of it. This enzyme is needed to make the proteins that are needed for ciliogenesis, but it was not clear what role this enzyme plays in regulating the assembly of these proteins. To investigate this, Kumar and colleagues used a technique called immunostaining to identify the enzyme in Chlamydomonas and mouse embryos. These experiments showed that the protein was present in a region called the Golgi and that it had abnormal levels of activity in this region. Further experiments revealed that a similar enzyme was required to assemble the pyrotechnic components that were found on the surface of other cells in mammalian cells. In the mice, the same enzyme did not work, suggesting that its activity was affected by changes in Golgids and cytosolic components. Together, these findings suggest that PAMP plays a key role in controlling ciliary assembly in both mammalian and non-mammalian cells and may help to explain why these diseases are so severe.
Stereocilia are a group of hair cells that are responsible for the development and maintenance of hearing. These cells contain a protein called Myo3, which is involved in the assembly and stabilization of actin bundles, and it is thought that the myosin protein Espin plays an important role in this process. However, it was not clear how the Myosins interact with Myin1, the protein that controls the formation of these bundles. Now, Wang et al. have used a technique called X-ray crystallography to examine the structure of the two proteins. The experiments revealed that a region called the tail homology I motif ( THDI ) is present at the tip of myin3. This region contains a pair of repeating sequences, known as ‘repeat sequences’, that can bind to the proteins that make up the filaments of a hair cell. Further experiments showed that this motif is also present in other species, including humans, mice and chickens. In the experiments, I3 was also found to be bound to another protein, called Ectoplasmic specialization protein 1, but it remained unclear how this protein was able to bind directly to it. By studying the structures of two other proteins found in different vertebrate cells, Mecklenburg and Diederichs have now identified a second region that is important for this binding. Together, these findings reveal a new mechanism by which the MYO3 protein interacts with the epinephrine transporter ( EECP ), a type of signaling molecule that helps to regulate the activity of other signaling molecules. More work is now needed to understand how these proteins work together.
Voltage-gated calcium channels are a family of ion channels that are found in the cell membrane. These channels carry electrical signals from the inside of cells to the outside, and they are responsible for the electrical activity of many cell types, including the nervous system, the heart and skeletal muscles. The calcium channel is made up of four helices, each of which contains positively charged residues in every third position. When calcium ions enter a cell, they move across the membrane to release energy into the surrounding cell. However, it is not clear how these ions interact with each other. To investigate this, Catterall et al. used cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of two different voltage sensing domains ( VSDs ) of the sodium channel CaV1. 1. This revealed that the two types of channels – known as active and resting states – have different properties. In the active state, calcium ion-pairs form a ring-like structure, while the resting state is controlled by a voltage-sensing domain ( called the ‘sensor fold’ ). Both of these states are active at different voltages, but it was not known how the different states of each channel are determined. Casterall and Wu then used a technique called computational modeling and electrophysiology to identify the molecular mechanisms by which different channels of calcium are activated and inactive. Together, these findings provide a mechanistic model for understanding how different ions behave in different vSD states.
The visual cortex is a region of the brain that responds to changes in the environment, such as light and sound, and is important for learning and memory. In mammals, it is thought that the cortex can undergo plasticity by depriving one eye of pattern vision for several days, but little is known about the role of this process in adult brains. For example, a protein called Matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) are thought to play a key role in helping adult brain tissue repair and rewiring. However, there is little evidence to support this idea. To address this question, Spolidoro et al. studied mice that had been severely injured by a stroke. The experiments showed that mice with a brain injury that deprived the left and right eyes of patterns vision were more likely to have an open eye than those with an injured eye. Further experiments revealed that when the mice were deprived of a visual stimulus, they had a greater chance of developing a new vision. Moreover, mice without an injury had more open eyes, which helped them to recover from the injury. This suggests that an optimal level of activity is needed to allow the adult cortex to develop into a healthy and healthy brain.
Signal transduction at synapses in the brain involves the rapid activation of a protein called AMPA receptors. These receptors are made up of three layers formed from distinct domains and ligand-binding domains. The first layer is made of amino-terminal domains, and the second layer consists of ligands that bind to proteins called adenosine triphosphate ( or ADP for short ). When the receptor is activated, the two extracellular domains of the receptors switch into four-fold symmetry. However, it is not clear how these regions interact with each other. To investigate this, Meyerson et al. used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of these receptors in detail. This revealed that the three-dimensional structures of receptors can change rapidly, depending on how long they are exposed to glutamate. Further experiments showed that these structures can undergo substantial lateral motions, even if they contain only one subunit ( called Stargazin ), which is required for the binding of glutamate-gated receptors to work properly. In the experiments, two subunits were added to the first sub-unit, while a second subsubunit was added. Together, these two groups formed a dimer-of-dimers that could be used as a template to manipulate the shape and size of each receptor layer. By contrast, a third sub unit, called MTS, could only be applied to a single layer of receptor, but it was not possible to measure how fast these changes were to occur. Here, Yu, Yelshanskaya, Zhao, Dürr, Zuber, Taschenberger, etc. examined the structures that were found in these experiments. They found that, when the glutamate receptor was activated at a synapse, only a short distance from the membrane was allowed to pass through the intermediate layer, allowing it to move in a stable, open-up manner. Furthermore, they observed that long-term exposure to high levels of amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptors could lead to rapid changes in how the protein binds to receptors, making it more likely that glutamate receptors will be able to be switched on and off at the same time. Understanding how this happens could help to develop new treatments for diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease.
Many diseases and infections are caused by parasites called helminths, which are found in the intestines of rodents and humans. These parasites cause inflammation and damage to the lining of the intestine, and can lead to diseases such as diarrhoea and ulcerative colitis. To treat these infections, researchers have used a technique called single cell analysis to isolate immune cells from the intestinal tissue of infected mice. However, it was not clear how the immune system responded to this process. Now, Svensson et al. have developed a new method to study the response of immune cell populations from a bacterium called Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri, a naturally occurring rodent parasite that infects the human and livestock populations. The method used in this study is called confocal microscopy. This technique allows the researchers to observe the responses of different immune groups in different parts of a mouse’s body, including the gut, the lumen and the pancreas. In addition, this technique can be used to identify the cells that are most likely to be active in a particular part of an infected animal. Recent advances in multi-cell analysis have greatly increased our understanding of multiple diseases, cell types and immune responses that have previously been difficult to detect. Svenson et Álvarez-Sorley have now used the technique to test the results of their experiments in mice that had been infected with the parasite. Further experiments showed that these cells were able to replicate the same immune response throughout the entire course of infection. Taken together, these findings suggest that the ability of single cells to work together to find the right response to a parasite is important for the development of new treatments for these diseases.
Proteins are the building blocks that make up the cells of the human body. They are made up of many different types of proteins, and their activity varies over time. For example, a protein called the 20S proteasome is responsible for the degradation of a large number of other proteins. However, it is not clear how this process is regulated, or how it works. To investigate this question, Liepe et al. have used mathematical modelling to develop a mathematical model that can be used to model the activity of these enzymes. The model shows that the enzymes involved in the proteolysis process are different from those that are found in other cells. These enzymes are called ‘proteins’ and they can degrade many proteins at the same time, depending on the type of cell they are in. In the experiments, the models were then compared with the data collected by the model. This revealed that these proteins degrade more rapidly than those produced by other enzymes, but that this is largely because of interactions between the proteins and the regulatory sites that regulate their degradation. Further work is now needed to understand how these interactions are regulated.
Neurons use chemical signals called neurotransmitters to communicate with each other. The neurotransmitter histamine is released from the synaptic cleft, and is then transported to the photoreceptor cells that surround the synapse. However, it is not clear how this process works. A protein called carcinine, which is produced by a glial cell in the retina, is responsible for transporting the chemical signal. It is thought that this chemical is recycled by the glia cells, but it has been unclear how the process is carried out. Now, Xu, Chaturvedi et al. have identified a new transporter that is involved in this recycling process. This transporter is found in fruit flies and flies that have been genetically modified to be able to produce histamines and β-alanine. In the fruit fly Drosophila, a transporter called CarT is present in these cells and it was previously unknown how carT transports the molecules to retinal pigment cells. To investigate the role of CART in retinitis pigment cell production, Xing and Wang used a technique called CRISPR-associated single-guide RNA ( Cas9 ) to identify the transporter. These experiments show that CARTA transports carcinamine directly into retinas. Further experiments also showed that the gene that encodes this transporter was expressed and required to transport the molecule. Importantly, these findings suggest that a similar transporter may also be involved with the production of histam.
As we age, our bodies become less able to withstand the stresses that come with aging. This is partly because of the accumulation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in our cells, which can cause damage to the cell’s redox machinery. However, it is not clear how ROS accumulates in the cells and how it affects the lifespan of an organism. Now, Brandes et al. have used a technique called OxICAT to measure the levels of hundreds of different proteins in yeast cells grown in a laboratory. The experiments show that when a yeast cell is exposed to a high level of oxidative stress, the enzyme that produces the oxidant, superoxide dismutase ( or catalase for short ) is used to oxidize the proteins. When this enzyme is switched on, a large number of proteins are oxidized, and the enzymes that produce these oxidants are switched off. These changes are known as “redox collapse”, but it was not known whether these changes were caused by a decrease in ROS levels, or whether they were triggered by the release of endogenous ROS. In the future, these findings may help scientists to better understand the role of ROS in aging in living organisms.
Cells are made up of many different types of RNA molecules, each of which has its own unique structure. For example, a protein called L-aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase ( DTD ) is found in all living cells. However, it is not clear how this enzyme is able to remove all of the D-aas that are mistakenly attached to the RNA molecule. To find out, Bhatt et al. have used a technique called crystallography to reveal the structure of a structure called a ‘cross-subunit’ that allows the enzyme to selectively remove only the two amino acids that it mistakenly attaches to. This is known as a proofreading step, but it was not known how it works in living organisms. Now, Zheng, Wydau and Zhang have solved the molecular basis of an enzyme that selectively removes only two of these amino acid residues. The enzyme uses an invariant structure to capture the chiral centre of each amino-acid, which prevents it from getting incorporated into the protein. In addition, the crystal structure revealed that the dTD enzyme can also remove the other two residues from the mRNA molecule, and that this allows it to avoid being inserted into proteins. Further work is now needed to understand how the mechanism of this process works.
In cystic fibrosis ( CF ) patients, a protein called the transmembrane conductance regulator ( or CFTR for short ) is responsible for regulating the activity of many proteins in the body. One of these proteins is a chloride ion channel, which is made up of two proteins that bind to each other. When the channel is mutated, two molecules of ATP are added to it, and the channels are gated by a molecule called cytosolic nucleotide binding domains ( NBDs ). However, it is not clear what causes the open-to-closed-pore gating. Vergani et al. have now used a mutant version of the gene for a drug called ivacaftor to investigate this question. The mutant gene mutated in CF patients has a small open probability of opening and closing, but it was not known whether this was the case in other mutant CF cells. In the mutant mutant, the opening of a channel without ATP was also strictly coupled to the closure of another channel that had been previously shown to open and close with the addition of an arginine ( R555 ) to a threonine. Further experiments showed that the opposite is also true for the closed channel and open channel. These results suggest that a combination of mutations in one gene and a mutation in another gene can lead to spontaneous opening or closing of both channels. Furthermore, these findings provide new insights into the mechanisms that drive the formation of new channels and how these can be used to treat patients with CF.
Transmembrane membranes are membranes that are made up of many different types of molecules. For example, a protein called dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine ( DPPC ) is found in the membrane of a lipid bilayer. When two proteins approach each other, they form an interface that separates the ordered phase from the disordered phase. This interaction is known as the “orderphobic effect”. The order of the transition between order and disorder phases is determined by the amount of energy that passes between the two phases. However, it is not clear how the order–disorder transition occurs. Marrink et al. have now used a large-scale molecular simulation to investigate this phenomenon. In the simulation, the proteins are embedded in a structure called an ordered membrane. A protein with a hydrophobic thickness equal to the thickness of that membrane stabilizes this interface and prevents the protein from forming an order-disordered interface. Using a technique called Fourier analysis, these proteins were able to assemble because they had a regular, non-tail-end layer that was smaller than that of their ordered counterparts. Further experiments showed that the same protein can also assemble when two different phases are joined together. These results suggest that a pre-transition effect exists for the first order transition, and that it can be used to control the movement of other proteins. Future work is now needed to understand how this effect arises.
Neurons in the visual cortex are often used to study how they communicate with each other. For example, calcium indicators can be detected when a cell fills the microscope’s field of view. However, it is not clear how the activity of individual neurons in a population is measured. To investigate this question, Pachitariu et al. used a technique called “fluorescent calcium indicator” ( or GECI for short ) microscopy to measure the amount of light that travels from the cell to the brain. The experiments were performed with a microscope in which a single neuron was surrounded by a large field-of-view containing many thousands of neurons. In the experiments, the cells were exposed to light from a nearby microscope, and the images were then imaged using the same technique. This revealed that most of the changes associated with individual spikes were detected under optimal conditions, but only a small number of spikes occurred. Moreover, most spikes did not occur under ideal conditions. These findings suggest that the effect of fluorescence on activity may be different for each individual neuron, which may make it difficult to interpret the results of these experiments. Here, Berens, Daigle, Dominguez and Daigerle compared the performance of different types of mouse lines that could be used in population imaging experiments to investigate how neurons communicate. First, mice were genetically engineered to be able to produce a fluorescent protein called GCaMP6f. Second, these mice had fewer neurons than normal mice, so they were less likely to detect spikes. Finally, in contrast to their normal mouse counterparts, some neurons were found to show spikes that were more common in healthy mice. Overall, this work provides a better understanding of how calcium signals are detected in human populations and will help researchers to develop new and future imaging datasets.
The female insect Neotrogla is a minute Brazilian cave insect belonging to the order Psocodea. The females of the species have a penis-like organ called the spermathecal plate, which is used for fertilization and is also consumed by the males. However, it is not clear how this mechanism evolved, or how it evolved. To find out, Yoshizawa et al. used a technique called confocal laser scanning microscopy to study the structure of a biological switching valve in the female's genitalia. This revealed a mechanism that allows the male to inject liquid semen into a female’s sperm storage organ and then inject it into her vagina. In the process, the sperm is then stored in a capsule that can be used as a food source. When the semen is injected into the vesicles of another female, a switch valve is inserted between the two sclerites to allow the fluid to flow in and outwards. These mechanisms are similar to those found in other animals, such as the barklice, and are thought to have evolved during the evolution of this species of insect. It was not known how the mechanism of switching valves evolved or what role it played in its evolution. Now, Matsumura has investigated the mechanisms that allow females to switch off the valve and obtain food from their male mates.
Neurons and other cells contain many different types of nerve cells. For example, neurons use a protein called SNARE to attach vesicles to their target cell membrane, which then binds to the membrane of the cell to release neurotransmitters into the brain. This process is called exocytosis, in which a cell releases a neurotransmitter from the synaptic membrane. However, it is not clear exactly how the two membranes fuse together. To investigate this question, Sudhof et al. used a technique called optical tweezers to study the assembly of a single protein. The experiments revealed that the protein Munc18-1 is involved in a number of different stages of membrane fusion, including assembly and fusion. In addition, the proteins were also found to have different roles in different cell compartments, such as the nervous system, brain, and nervous systems. Further experiments showed that mutations in the gene that codes for the mutant version of this protein lead to different levels of protein assembly. These findings suggest that a mutation in this gene can alter the activity of SNARES, but it was not fully understood how these changes affect the production of these proteins. Now, Siggia and Rothman have used an optical microscope to examine four distinct layers of proteins that are responsible for membrane assembly in mice. Each layer contains a specific protein domain and a region called the ‘n-terminal regulatory domain’ that controls which proteins are needed to assemble and fuse the membranes. Together, these findings provide a new model for understanding the molecular mechanisms that drive the formation of synaptic connections.
The integrin adhesome contains more than hundred proteins with multiple binding sites for each other. These proteins are assembled in the cytosol of the plasma membrane, where they interact with other proteins to form complex structures called focal adhesion sites. This complex is made up of many different types of proteins, but it is not clear how this complex works. To investigate this question, Lavelin et al. used a technique called fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy ( FCCS ) to measure the activity of a protein complex in a cell membrane called the photobleaching pool. The experiments revealed that the integrinsome is extensively pre-assembled already in this pool, which allows it to quickly assemble and disassemble the complex proteins that it needs to mature into focal complexes. Further experiments showed that this process is carried out by a process called ‘multi-protein building blocks’, in which a single protein is attached to a specific site and then re-assembles it with the surrounding scaffolding. In the future, this work could lead to new ways to study the assembly of complex molecules.
Sleep is a state of unconsciousness that cycles between rapid and non-rapid eye movement sleep ( NREM ) and general anesthesia. Both sleep stages and anesthesia are characterized by an increase in activity in the electroencephalogram ( EEG ), which measures the electrical activity of the brain’s nervous system. However, neither sleep stage nor anesthesia is thought to be the same as wakefulness. Instead, the EEG is used to measure the level of arousal in a brain state called “wakefulness”. This means that it is possible to distinguish sleep from awakefulness in humans, but this is not always the case. Now, Prerau et al. have used EEG recordings from 20 healthy people to investigate whether sleep is actually awake or sleep-like. The results show that both sleep phases and awake states of reduced arousal are distinct from each other. These findings suggest that a common electrophysiological marker, called the ‘electroencephalography power spectrum‘, can distinguish between awake and asleep states. Further experiments showed that the spectral slope of EEG activity is much lower during sleep than during awake sleep. In contrast, it was much higher during the awake state and lower when awake. Furthermore, when the electrodes were placed on the scalp, they were less sensitive to electrical signals than they would be under anesthesia, suggesting that sleep may be more awake than awake in both wake and REM sleep, depending on how much of an electrical signal is switched on and off. Finally, these findings reveal that EEG measurements can be used as a proxy to determine whether a person is awake, asleep or awake at any given time. It is also important to understand how the human brain responds to drugs, such as propofol and barbiturates, and how these drugs affect brain activity.
Stromules are tubular structures that extend along the surface of the chloroplasts of plants and animals. They are found in many genera in the plant kingdom, but they are most common in non-green plastids. In plants, stromule extension is controlled by a group of proteins called actin microfilaments ( or MTs ) and microtubules, which are attached to the cell’s nuclei. These structures are known to be active during an innate immune response. However, it was not clear how these structures work during innate immunity. To investigate this, Caplan et al. used a technique called transmission electron microscopy to study the movement of a type of cell called leaf epidermal cells. The experiments show that when a plant is exposed to a chemical shock, the stroma extends along its chloroplast. This extension causes the cells to become more flexible, and the length of these cells increases as they grow. Further experiments showed that the extension of STROMULES is regulated by the presence of actins filaments on the endoplasmic reticulum ( MT for short ), a structure that helps to support the growth of plant cells and other organelles. When the plants were treated with a drug called Cytochalasin D ( CTD ) or a gene for a protein called GCP4, they were able to increase the number of stormules and lengthen their length and length. Stromular extensions were also observed in green leaf tissue and in fruit and vegetable cells, suggesting that this is a general mechanism of innate immunodeficiency. A next step will be to find out if this same mechanism is also used in other plants.
Proteins are made up of many different amino acids, and each amino acid has its own unique sequence identity. However, it is not clear how the amino-acid sequence identities of the residues that make contact across protein interfaces covary during evolution. To answer this question, Dago et al. used a technique called a pseudo-likelihood-based statistical method to predict whether two proteins are in contact with each other. This method predicts that two protein complexes are almost always at the same position in the three-dimensional structure, provided that the number of aligned sequences is greater than the average length of each protein. The model then predicts whether the proteins will interact with one another, or if they will only interact if there is sufficient alignment. In the case of a protein complex, this is because the sequence of residues is more than twice as long as the protein’s length. For example, if the DNA of one protein is longer than that of another protein, then it will be more likely to interact than it would be to be in direct contact. Therefore, the model could be used to build models of biological complexes.
Interpreting visual scenes typically requires us to use our eyes, whiskers and hands to scan the scene. However, it is not clear whether the eye movements used to categorize a scene are the same as those used in visual search. To investigate this question, Toscani et al. used a technique called active sensing to study eye movement in a visual categorization task. Participants were asked to identify a single visual location that had all the necessary information in it, and to select a particular location based on their eyes’ movements. The task involved a series of detailed observations, including facial expressions, gestures and gestures of the people around them. This information was then combined with information gathered about the current visual scene to produce an optimal strategy for categorizing the image. In this way, the participants were able to distinguish between the images that they had seen and those that were partially obscured by foliage. These results suggest that the active strategy used by participants in this task is more efficient than visual searches, which require more information to be gathered from multiple locations. Further work is now needed to find out whether this strategy is also effective in other tasks.
Nucleocytoplasmic transport is tightly regulated by the nuclear pore complex ( NPC ). This complex is made up of more than 2000 different proteins, two thirds of which are folded proteins that bind nuclear transport receptors ( NTRs ) to proteins. The NPC is also the gatekeeper of many other cargoes that can pass through the NPC. However, it is not clear how large a large cargo can be efficiently transported. To find out, Kosinski et al. used a technique called X-ray crystallography to study the size and structure of a small cargo that passes through NPC in a typical HeLa cell. In the experiments, the cells were exposed to a fluorescent dye, which was then used to measure the sizes of the cargo. These measurements revealed that the volume of cargo inside NPC varies between 15 nm and 30 nm, depending on the type of protein that binds to the receptor, and the amount of energy needed to transport it. Further experiments showed that a protein called FG nucleoporins ( FG Nups ) is responsible for controlling the number of NLSs on NPC, but it was not known how much of this protein was involved in the transport of large molecules. Kann, Görlich and Szymborska used the same approach to investigate the molecular determinants of nuclear cargo transport in different types of cells. Together, these results show that nuclear cargo transport depends on a range of molecular factors, including size, number and energy cost. For example, if a molecule is large enough to travel through an NPC at the right time, then it will be able to pass into the nucleus, where it can then be used as a template for other molecules to enter the cell and transport to other parts of its nucleus. Overall, this work provides a new way to understand how cargo is transported in cells and how it affects the efficiency of cell survival.
The immune system is made up of a group of cells called helper T cells. These cells are able to respond to the presence of invading pathogens, and they can then divide to form T helper type 1 and T follicular helper cells in the gastrointestinal tract. However, it is not clear whether the role of the signaling molecule CD28 plays a role in maintaining the T cell response after infection. To investigate this question, Klinger et al. created a strain of mice that lacked the gene that encodes a molecule that is needed for the activation of CD8 signaling. The mice were genetically engineered to be immune to a virus called Citrobacter rodentium, a bacterium that causes an autoimmune disease in humans and other animals. In the experiments, the mice showed that a protein called CD80/CD86 was required for activation after the virus had entered the intestines. This protein was then removed from the mouse cells, but it was not known whether this protein is also needed to maintain the immune response in response to infection, or if it has a different role to that found in other signaling molecules. Further experiments revealed that the activity of another protein, called T-lymphocyte antigen 4 ( CTLA-4 ), is essential for activating the cells that are responsible for controlling the growth and maintenance of T lymphocytes. Furthermore, CD86 is required to activate the cell types that help to control the spread of viruses, such as citrus fruit flies, which are resistant to viral infections. Therefore, this work provides a new way to understand how the body responds to an infection and to develop new treatments for this disease.
Helical cell shape is essential for the survival of human stomachs. Helicobacter pylori is a bacterium that colonizes the stomach and can cause stomach ulcers and gastric cancers. Helical cells are made of a polymer of alternating N-acetylglucosamine and a peptide stem that is crosslinked to a protein called MurNAc, which forms a structure called the cell wall. This structure helps to maintain the shape of the cells. However, it is not clear how these cells maintain their helical shape. Sycuro et al. have now used a technique called 3D microscopy to study the structure of H. pylon cells in three dimensions. The experiments revealed that the H. pylea bacteriophage contains two types of cells: straight- and curved-rod-like cells, and the non-enzymatic cells that produce the proteins that make them. These cells have different shapes and sizes, but it was not known how they maintained their shape at both positive and negative curvatures. To find out how this shape maintenance is maintained, the researchers used two metabolic probes to look at the surface of different cells from different species of bacteria. In the experiments, cells were genetically modified to produce two proteins called MreB and CcmA. Both proteins were found to be active at negative and positive Gaussian curvature, while the other protein was absent at positive or negative. Together, these findings suggest that these proteins are important for maintaining a shape that promotes the growth of healthy bacteria in the intestines. Further work is now needed to understand how the three-dimensional structures of these bacteria are maintained.
Mitochondria are dynamic organelles that are constantly undergoing fusion and fission events. The outer membrane of the cell is made up of proteins called mitofusins, which fuse with other proteins to form vesicles called mitochondria. This process is known as mitochondrial fusion, and is linked to Parkinson’s disease ( CMT ), a type of degenerative disease in which the brain and nervous system are affected by a disorder called Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. These diseases are caused by defects in the outer membranes of cells, such as the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) in mammals, yeast and yeast. A chaperone called Cdc48/p97 is involved in this process, but it is not clear how it regulates the activity of these proteins. Anton et al. have now identified a protein called Ubp12/Ubp2 that interacts with the ubiquitin chains on Fzo1. In the experiments, the two proteins interact with each other to activate the fusion process. However, it was not known how these two DUBs work together, or how they regulate the activities of both of them. To investigate this question, Anton and Hochstrasser used a technique called coimmunoprecipitation to study the role of two enzymes that interact in a cascade of events called ubiquitylation. First, they found that the enzymes were able to bind to and cleave different proteins that were not found on the other enzymes. Second, these enzymes reduced the levels of a group of enzymes called UBP12 that was found to be ubiquitized. Finally, Ubps12 and UbP2 were unable to inhibit the formation of new proteins and instead reduced their activity. Further experiments showed that these three enzymes interact to control the activation or repression of fusion processes. Together these findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms that control how the proteins are produced.
The brain is made up of regions of the brain called the ventral occipito-temporal cortex ( VOTC ). These regions are involved in the processing of sensory information, such as words, sounds and letters. However, it is not clear how these regions organize themselves in response to visual information. Bedny et al. used functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) to study the activity of these areas in sighted and blind people. The experiments showed that the regions that encode information about sounds are more organized than those found in vision. In contrast to vision, the region that encodes sounds is organized in a way that is similar to the one seen in visual input. This reorganization occurs when the sensory input is different from the input received by the eye. For example, when a sound is presented acoustically, this region is more likely to respond to sounds than to images presented visually. But what is the structure of this structure and how does it change over time? The next challenge will be to find out.
Many of the most extraordinary examples of evolution have been found in animals. For example, a fungus called Entomophthora muscae infects the skin of an infected fly. This fungus is able to cause the fly’s skin to become inflamed, and then, when it is ready to die, it attaches its mandibles to the body cavity and devours it. The fungus can also infect other insects, such as the house fly, which can be used as a model organism to study the behavior of its host. Previous studies have shown that the fungus invades the nervous system of insects that are infected with the disease. However, this is not the case in the laboratory. Instead, researchers have used a technique called microscopy to examine the effects of this fungus on flies that had recently been infected by an insect called Drosophila melanogaster. In the experiments, the flies were exposed to a new fungus that was infecting them, but it was not clear how it did this. Now, Steinkraus et al. have identified a strain of a fungal pathogen that can infect a fly that has recently died from an infection with a parasitic fungus in a laboratory species. These flies have a distinctive ‘zombie ant fungus' that causes them to crawl upward, extend their proboscides, then raise their wings and fly away from their host, whereupon they fly to their final resting place and die. Further experiments showed that this behavior-changing fungus could be exploited by other fungi, including the entomopathogenic fungi that parasitize house flies.
RNA is made up of a protein called messenger RNA ( mRNAs ), which is found in the nucleus of the cell. When messenger RNAs are produced, they are rapidly degraded to make proteins that can be made into RNA molecules. However, it is not clear how these processes are regulated. To understand how RNA is degraded, Schmid et al. studied the activity of 30 different RNA degradation factors in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The experiments show that the enzymes responsible for the degradation of mRNA are involved in a number of different processes. For example, a group of enzymes called Nrd1/Nab3 and TRAMP4 bind to mRNA molecules that are defective in translation. These enzymes are then recruited to the mRNA molecule by a process known as ‘transcriptome mapping’. In yeast, the RNA molecule is broken down into a series of three-dimensional structures called the “poly-adenylated” tail. This process is known to be triggered by the loss of one of these proteins, called Pab1, and is followed by another protein that is needed to break down the polymerase that encodes the protein. It is also known that a complex of other enzymes that control the production of RNA can also be used to degrade mRNA, but it was not known how this process works. Now, Schroeder et. have used a technique called photactivatable ribonucleoside-enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation ( PAR-CLIP for short ) to identify 30 specific RNA-degenerating factors that were recruited only for mRNA degradation. Together, these profiles reveal that these enzymes target a wide range of types of nuclear RNA, including nuclear and non-nuclear RNA. Further work is now required to find out how the nuclear surveillance machinery targets these nuclear types.
Genes are essential for many processes in plants and animals. For example, when a gene is expressed in a plant, it can trigger a process called gene induction. This process involves changing the expression of genes in the plant’s genes, which can be rapidly induced by various biotic and abiotic stimuli. In plants, this process is controlled by a group of enzymes called transcription factors. One of these enzymes, called chromatin remodeler pickle, is involved in regulating the activity of the genes that control gene expression. However, the exact role of this enzyme is not well understood. It is thought that it plays an important role in controlling the timing of gene activation, but it was not clear how it works. Now, Xu et al. have used a combination of genetic and epigenomic data to investigate the roles of two epigenetic marks in Arabidopsis thaliana. The experiments show that the two marks play opposite roles on gene activity, and that they are linked to the production of a protein complex called H3K27me3, a type of bivalent chromatin. Further experiments also showed that two different types of modifications were required to enable the activation of both genes at the same time. Importantly, these two modifications had the opposite effect on the levels of histone 3, another transcription factor that is required for the gene to be activated. These findings suggest that both modifications are necessary to allow the release of certain genes into the cell. Xu and Xu also found that a second epigenome modification, known as kairostat, was needed to ensure that these genes were activated at a specific time and place. Together these findings provide a new set of insights into how genes are regulated in plant cells.
The brain is made up of many different types of cells, including neurons and astroglia. Each type of astrocyte has a specific role in the adult brain, and it is important to understand how these cells work in different parts of the brain. For example, the cells that make up a part of a brain called the subventricular zone ( SVZ for short ) are able to self-renew and generate multiple different cell types. However, it was not clear how this process works. Now, Aloia et al. show that a protein called EZH2 regulates the activity of several transcription factors that regulate the expression of genes associated with non-SVZ cells. This protein is found in a group of proteins called Polycomb group proteins, which are involved in regulating the production of other proteins. The experiments showed that this protein binds to a transcription factor called a histone methyltransferase ( PRC2 ) that is required for the formation of new neurons. Further experiments revealed that the gene that encodes this gene is also present in other cells in this region. These findings suggest that an epigenetic regulator is needed to ensure that adult stem cells are maintained for all of adult life. In the future, these findings may lead to new treatments for neurodegenerative diseases and oncogenesis.
Viruses and other microbes are key drivers of the growth of ecosystems in the global ocean. Viruses, for example, are responsible for the production of nutrients and energy, and they are often found in poorly ventilated, highly stratified waters. However, it is not clear how these microbes and viruses interact, or how they interact. To address this question, researchers have used a technique called metagenomic and single-cell genomic sequencing to identify 69 viruses and bacteria living in a marine oxygen minimum zone ( OMZ ). The genomes of these viruses were sequenced from uncultivated bacteria, but it was not known how the viruses interacted with the bacteria. Now, Hurwitz, Anantharaman et al. have now used this technique to examine the microbial communities in an ocean environment that has been exposed to high levels of oxygen and high concentrations of sulfite. This revealed that SUP05 bacteria are more likely to be infected by viruses than viruses. In addition, the microbes were also more active in oxygen-deficient waters, which suggests that they may be able to reprogram their host's energy metabolism. These findings suggest that, in addition to their ability to control oxygen levels, these bacteria also have a role to play in regulating the metabolism of carbon, nitrogen and sulfur. Further work is now needed to find out if these two groups of viruses are related to each other.
Cilia are hair-like organelles that protrude from the cell’s surface. Cilia have two major functions: they are responsible for controlling the flow of fluid into and out of cells, and they control the movement of the fluid. However, it is not clear how cilia and flagella are assembled and maintained. It is thought that different types of proteins are involved in the assembly and maintenance of these structures. For example, a protein called TTC26/DYF13 is found in zebrafish embryos and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, which are both single-celled eukaryotes and humans. This protein is a member of a group of 20 proteins and motor proteins called IFT complex B proteins. These proteins can be separated biochemically and functionally into two subcomplexes, called TFT complexes A and B. To investigate the role of this complex, Ishikawa et al. used a technique called electron microscopy to look at the activity of two proteins that interact with each other. The experiments showed that the TTF complexes B and C were able to move along the length of C, whereas the TTC complexes C and D were unable to do so. Further experiments also revealed that a particular set of other proteins were not required for the transport of cargo proteins along C.. In addition, the protein was found to be depleted in mutant mice that had abnormal motility and abnormal ear otolith formation, similar to those seen in human ciliopathies. Overall, these findings support the idea that many different proteins play different roles in a complex. Future studies are also needed to understand how the complex proteins work together to assemble and maintain these complex structures in different organisms.
Melanoma is a type of melanoma that is found in the skin and lymph nodes of the human body. The disease is caused by the spread of cancer cells into the lymphatic system, where they invade and colonize the surrounding tissues and blood vessels. However, it is not clear how this process works. Lambert et al. set out to investigate how the metastasis of metastatic melanomas in mice and zebrafish is controlled by a group of immune cells called lymphatics. These cells are made up of a cell-non-autonomous group known as lymphocytes, and they are able to grow in 3D. To investigate the molecular mechanisms that allow metastases to occur in mouse tumors, Lambert and Offermanns used a technique called “2D co-culture”. In the experiments, the LECs were exposed to a variety of different types of lymphocyte cells, including those originating from primary tumors and metastasized tumors. This allowed the cells to multiply and spread in a way that did not previously be possible. Further experiments showed that the interactions between lymph cells and the tumor cells were similar to those seen in cells from the primary tumor, but not in lymphomas. Furthermore, these cells also contained two proteins called Notch3 and β1-integrin, which are needed for lymphoma to spread. Overall, this work provides a new understanding of how cancer spreads in cancer.
The brain is made up of a complex network of structures called dendrites and spines. These structures are the main sites of information input into the brain, and are important for the formation of connections between neurons. In mammals, a protein called miR-9 is one of the most abundant miRNAs in the developing and adult brain. However, it is not well understood how this protein regulates the development of neurons and how they develop. To investigate this question, Ameres et al. developed a mouse line to study the role of miRNA in developing the neurons of mice. The experiments revealed that the mice were genetically engineered to be able to produce a microRNA called a ‘microRNA’, which is a non-coding RNAs that regulate the activity of many genes. Furthermore, the experiments showed that mice that lacked the gene that encodes the protein had higher levels of this gene than those that did not have it. Moreover, these mice had fewer neurons than normal mice, suggesting that this was due to the presence of another gene, called REST, that is involved in regulating the expression of other genes that encode the mRNA. Further experiments show that REST is essential for proper growth and synaptic transmission in mouse brains.
Autism spectrum disorders ( ASD ) are a group of conditions that affect the development of children and adults with autism spectrum disorder ( or ASD for short ). Early signs of autism include a lack of interest in social stimuli, and a preference for and attention towards non-social stimuli. These early signs are known as social visual engagement difficulties, but it is not clear how these difficulties are linked to autism. Now, Pierce et al. have used a technique called resting state fMRI to track the activity of a subset of autistic toddlers and other children with ASD. The experiments show that these toddlers spend less than 30% of their time looking at social displays and instead prefer to attend to geometric patterns 70–100 percent of the time. This indicates that the brain is atypical in the early stages of social social engagement. In contrast, other brain regions – such as the default mode network, which is involved in visual processing – are much more active in early social interaction difficulties. However, it was not known how this brain division is affected by the age of brain activity. Pierce and Klin, 2016, compared the data from a large sample of ASD toddlers with an older sibling with a younger sibling who had a different brain region to the one seen in this comparison group. They found that a subtype called GeoPref ASD, for example, spends less of eye-tracking-related activity 70-100% more than the other subtypes with the same brain area. Further experiments showed that this type of behavior is more likely to occur in people with early developmental delay ( LD/DD ) and those with older siblings. Overall, these findings suggest that early-age differences between individuals with and without ASD may be important for early intervention in these individuals.
The blood cells that make up the body of an animal are called hemocytes. These cells are made up of two types of cells: plasmatocytes and crystal cells. Both types are produced in the blood gland, where they divide to produce a protein called prophenoloxidase. However, it is not known how these cells divide when they are in circulation, or how they differentiate between the two cell types. In the larva, the lymph gland is the most important organ for the development of the embryo. It is also the organ that produces the proteins that allow the cells to divide. This organ is known as the hematopoietic organ, and it has been suggested that these proteins are responsible for regulating the number of hemocyte cells in this organ. Now, Makhijani et al. have used a technique called a time-lapse imaging technique to show that the levels of blood cell numbers increase during larval development. The experiments showed that, in response to the presence of a signaling molecule called Notch, a group of specialized cells called ‘crystal cells’ are formed in a cluster of clusters that are surrounded by a layer of proteins called the “Notch signaling center”. When a crystal cell is released, this cell divides to form a new cell type called plasmmatocyte, which is a type of cell that can differentiate into a cell from a different type. Further experiments revealed that this process occurs in clusters of crystals that form at the end of each stage of development and is dependent on the integrity of these structures. Overall, these findings provide new insights into the role of this tissue in developing embryos.
Aneuploidy is one of the most common genetic diseases in the human body. It is linked to many diseases, including Down syndrome, and it is often thought that the genetic mutations that cause the disease are caused by the duplication of genes. However, it remains unclear how cells overcome the deleterious effects of aneuploids and how they do so. To overcome this problem, researchers have used yeast strains as a model organism to study how yeast cells adapt to a genetic mutation. The experiments show that yeast strain YPS1009, a strain of yeast that produces two, three, or four copies of a gene, is more sensitive to the effects on the gene than laboratory strains. This is because the yeast is extremely slow growing, regardless of how many copies it has of its genetic material. In contrast, laboratory yeast are able to grow in a way that allows them to tolerate the increased expression of many genes that are toxic when they are overexpressed. Here, Sheltzer et al. used a technique called RNA deep sequencing to analyze the genomes of six different strains of wild yeast. These strains were genetically engineered to produce a small number of different genes, but the experiments showed that some of these genes were more active than expected. Further experiments revealed that these strains had higher levels of gene-dosage compensation at 10–30% of amplified genes compared to wild strains, suggesting that this is a natural, if transient, route to rapid phenotypic evolution.
Flatworms are one of the most diverse groups of invertebrates in the world. Their eyes are a key biological stimulus for most animals, and they are able to detect light using photopigments. However, it is not clear how these photoreceptors evolved. One type of opsin, called ciliary opsins, is thought to be involved in phototransduction, but little is known about the role of these cells. Xenopsin is a protein that is found in many different types of cells, including the eyespot and extraocular cells that surround the brain. It is also thought that this protein may have evolved in a different group of animals. Now, Vöcking et al. have discovered that xenopsins are present in two different subfamilies of flatworms, the larva and the adult. These cells are made up of cilia and microvilli, while the adults use a similar cell type called the epidermal vacuole. The larvae of Maritigrella crozieri, a flatworm species that has been studied for over a decade, show that they have two distinct subtypes: the cile-ciliated cells of their eyes and a phaosome that surrounds their brains. In addition, they also have a second subtype called rhabdomeric cells in which they interact with other cells to form a photoplasmic retinaldehyde. Together, these findings suggest that these two subgroups are similar to each other. Further work is now needed to understand how this sub-type evolved and how it has evolved over time.
The nervous system is made up of a network of neurons called the neuroectoderm. Each neuroblast produces a sequence of 30 neurons in each segment, named according to their row and columnar position. These neurons and glia are then called progenitor neurons, which are produced in the brain and the optic lobes. However, it is not clear how the spatial and temporal cues are integrated to specify the neuronal identity of each neuron. To investigate this, Kohwi et al. used a technique called Targeted DamID to measure the activity of two proteins called Hunchback and Pax3. Both proteins are involved in a process called spatial patterning, where they bind to specific regions of the DNA to produce different types of cells. The experiments show that the first step in this process is to identify the regions that are important for the formation of new neurons. In mammals and Drosophila, the two-dimensional neuroblasts produce 30 different cells, each with a unique pattern of genes and proteins. But it was not known how spatial factors and TTFs work together to determine the neural identities produced by each of these cells and how they are linked to each other. This is particularly important in mammals, because they have a wide range of brain regions, including the eyes, ears and eyes. It is also important to understand the role of temporal factors, as well as spatial patterns, in determining the identity produced during the developmental stages of neural development.
P2X receptors are a family of proteins that are found in many types of cells, including neurons and neurons. These receptors switch rapidly between closed and open conformations in response to the release of ions from the cell’s surface. When the receptor is activated, it opens a compartment in the membrane called the transmembrane domain ( TMD ) that is responsible for controlling the movement of the ions. However, the exact details of how the receptors open and close are not fully understood. Now, Hattori, Gouaux et al. have used a technique called X-ray crystallography to study the structure of a protein called P2x2 receptor in a zebrafish cell. The experiments revealed that the inside and outer ends of two proteins, called TM1 and TM2, are tightly packed together to form a pore-lining structure. This structure is thought to control the flow of sodium, potassium and calcium ions through the channel, but it is not clear how this mechanism works. To address this question, they used microscopy and computational techniques to observe a series of “molecular tweezers” that could be used to manipulate the shape of this membrane-embedded receptor. In the experiments, these microscopes were able to precisely measure the distance between the outer and inner end of each protein, which allowed them to accurately model the opening motion of an ATP-gated receptor during activation. Further experiments showed that this distance was significantly reduced compared to that seen in other membrane proteins. Taken together these findings provide new insights into the gating mechanism of P1X2 receptors, and may open new therapeutic avenues.
Cytokinesis is the division of one cell into two daughter cells, which occurs at the end of the cell cycle. This process is driven by two proteins called F-actin and myosin-II. These proteins are essential for cell division, but it is not clear how they are regulated in all animal cells. In the worm Caenorhabditis elegans, a type of cell called the blastomere, each cell in the embryo has a distinct cell fate. However, it has long been assumed that all cells in an animal cell divide by a similar molecular mechanism. Now, Davies et al. have used a technique called fast-acting temperature-sensitive microscopy to study the molecular mechanisms that underlie this variation. The experiments showed that the two cell types that divide in a particular way—called “cell-intrinsic regulation”—have different roles in different cell-types. For example, in two cells ( EMS and P2 ), the cytokinetic regulation is regulated by genes that regulate the activity of a protein called filamentous actin. Further experiments revealed that when cells divide, they need to be able to bind to each other in order to form a contractile ring. Furthermore, when a cell divides, this cell is unable to attach to its neighbor cell, and it cannot bind with its partner cell. Together, these findings suggest that both cell type-specific and cell identity regulation are important for the development of other tissues and organs.
Bacterial flagella are found in seawater and in the ocean, and they are important for the survival of many species of animals. These bacteria are able to evade the host’s immune system by migrating through pores and down ducts, where they interact with other bacteria. However, it has been difficult to separate the role of the sheath from its other roles. For example, some bacteria can evade immune responses, such as the presence of a molecule called lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ), which helps to activate the immune response. In the case of bacteria, this molecule is found on the surface of some of these bacterial cells, but it is not clear how it works. To investigate this question, Graf et al. used a model squid species called Vibrio fischeri to study how the bacteria migrate into the light-emitting organs of certain fishes and squids. The experiments show that the bacterial population moves through the air in a rapidly spinning structure that surrounds the cell membrane. Further experiments showed that this mechanism is activated by a bacterium that is known to be in contact with the fluid-like structure. This suggests that, in addition to helping to protect the squid from the microbes that live in its environment, the microorganisms also help to promote the spread of an immunogen that can bind to the lipid-A component of lPS. Future work will investigate whether this is the same mechanism that allows bacteria to invade the cells of other animals, including humans and squid.
Genome instability is one of the most common genetic disorders in humans. It can lead to diseases such as cancer and cancer, and it is also associated with genetic mutations that can cause cancer. Genetic instability can also be a cause of cancer or other developmental disorders. Genome rearrangements are known as mitotic catastrophes, but the causes of these are not well understood. Arabidopsis thaliana, for example, is an example of a plant species that has a variant histone called CENH3, which is thought to be responsible for a number of human diseases. However, it was not clear how the mutation caused the mutations. Ravi, Chan et al. have now used a technique called genome elimination to study the effects of genetic instability on the genomes of different plants. The experiments show that a mutation in the gene that encodes the H3 gene causes the chromosome to become aneuploid. In addition, mutations in another gene, called non-homologous end joining ( NHEJ ), cause the chromosomes to detach from each other. Further experiments showed that this process can be carried out in wild-type plants that have different versions of this gene. These findings provide a new system to investigate the origins, causes and consequences of genome instability. Future studies will also help to understand the mechanisms by which genetic errors can occur in other organisms.
Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is a virus that infects the human immune system, causing many cancers worldwide. The virus can also mutate into a type of cancer called lymphoma, which can lead to the death of many people. In the early stages of infection, the virus is able to transform the infected B cells into lymphocytes, or LCLs. This process is known as ‘oncogenesis’, and it is thought that the infection is caused by a viral oncoprotein called LMP1. However, it has not been clear how the oncogenes in infected cells are regulated. Now, Longnecker, Luftig et al. have used a technique called BH3 profiling to identify the genes and proteins that are involved in the activation of the immune response to infection. These genes are expressed in a protein called the EBNA3 protein, but it was not clear what role this protein plays in B cell survival. To investigate this question, researchers first studied the activity of a gene called NFκB, a transcription factor that is essential for the cell to grow and divide. Next, they used the same technique to investigate the role of another gene—called BFL-1—in BCL cells that had been infected early after infection and were unable to divide and proliferate. They found that, early on in infection of infected and early-infected cells, there was little or no expression of this gene. Further experiments showed that this change in survival is unique to infected or early in-infected B-cell lymphomas, suggesting that it may be important to develop new drugs that inhibit the production of these genes. Future work will investigate whether these findings could be applied to other types of human cancers.
Plants are able to adapt to changes in their environment and the environment that they live in. These changes can have both positive and negative effects on the plant’s ability to survive and thrive. For example, the ability of a plant to defend itself against herbivores and other biotic threats may increase its survival. However, it is not clear how these environmental and demographic factors influence the production and distribution of specialized metabolites. To investigate this question, Kliebenstein et al. used a collection of 797 natural Arabidopsis thaliana natural accessions collected from different locations in and around Europe. The results showed that a combination of environmental pressure, demography and genetic pressures all contribute to the variation in the number of different metabolites produced by different plant species. This suggests that different environmental factors may influence which metabolites are produced and which are not. Further studies are now needed to understand how genetic factors, such as genetic variation, influence how many metabolites each plant produces and how they are distributed across the different plants.
Cancer is the most common type of cancer in humans and other animals. It is caused by a process called apoptosis-induced proliferation, in which cells in the cells that are responsible for the growth of tumors die as larvae. This process is known as ‘evading apoptosis’, and it is thought that apoptotic caspases can also promote tumor growth. However, it has not been clear how these mechanisms work under certain conditions. For example, a protein called RasV12, which encodes a molecule called JNK, has been shown to promote the proliferation of tumour-like cells, but it was not known how it does this. Now, Fogarty et al. have shown that in a mouse model of the disease called Drosophila melanogaster, the activity of two proteins called Eiger ( the enzyme that produces the gene that codes for this protein ) is switched on and off. In the mutant mice, this switch is triggered by the production of a chemical called reactive oxygen species ( or ROS for short ). These ROS are then released back to the tumor-promoting cells via a feedback loop that promotes the formation of new tumor cells. Further experiments showed that this feedback amplification loop is necessary for cancer cells to grow and proliferate. The next step is to find out if other proteins, such as RNA molecules, are also involved in this loop.
Social interaction is one of the most important forms of communication in the world. People with autism, for example, often use body gestures to communicate with one another. However, it is not clear what role these gestures play in our perception of social interactions. To address this question, Parker et al. studied the brain activity of two people who have autism. The experiments show that when the two individuals interact with each other, they are perceived to be longer in duration than when they interact noncommunicatively. This suggests that the difference between perceived time and physical time may be due to differences in one’s ability to perceive social interaction. In addition, the experiments also showed that a drug called oxytocin helps to reduce the amount of time that is spent on social communication. These findings suggest that this drug may play an important role in reducing the duration of physical communication, and may also help to explain why autism is so different from other disorders.
The SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus infects cells and causes severe acute respiratory syndrome ( COVID-19 ) in more than 135 million people worldwide. This is caused by a protein called the Spike protein receptor binding domain ( RBD ), which binds to the ACE2 protein on the surface of the cell surface. Previous vaccines have prevented the virus from infecting cells, but new viruses have emerged that are able to infect cells. In 2019, a new type of virus was identified in the United States, and it is now known that it can infect human cells in a way that makes it more difficult to control the spread of this virus. However, it was not clear how this new virus interacts with other viruses. Now, Dejnirattisai et al. have used a technique called surface plasmon resonance ( SPR ) to study the effects of five common mutations that affect the binding site of Spike proteins. The experiments show that these mutations enhance the interaction between the SP spike and the enzyme that codes for the protein. Further experiments showed that the mutations increase the affinity between Spike and ACE 2, while the other two mutations decrease binding. These findings are consistent with the findings of previous studies that have shown that mutations in other proteins enhance binding and facilitate immune evasion.
Genes play an important role in many biological processes, including the development of cells, the growth of the body and the regulation of many other processes. Genes also play important roles in regulating the activity of other genes, such as signalling, chromatin biology and cell cycle regulation. Genetic interactions have profound effects during normal development and in disease. However, it is not clear how these interactions occur. To investigate this question, Laufer et al. used a technique called combinatorial RNA interference and automated single-cell phenotyping to generate a large genetic interaction map for 21 phenotypes of Drosophila cells. This map revealed that a protein complex called the Ras pathway interacts with a gene called SWI/SNF, which is responsible for the production of proteins in the cell. In addition, mutations in one of these genes can alter the expression of another gene in another. These interactions are known as epistatic interactions, and it has been challenging to map them at large-scale because it was not possible to predict how the interactions would affect the effects of different genes in different diseases. By combining genetic interactions on 21 genes with information about how they interact with each other in human cancer cells ( called mitosis, for short ) and computer simulations of how genes interact in a disease-causing process called tumor necrosis factor ( CDNF ), this map provides a powerful resource for understanding how diseases occur in humans and other animals.
Heterostyly is a widespread, wide-spread floral adaptation to promote outbreeding, yet its genetic basis and evolutionary origin remain poorly understood. For example, a plant called Primula ( primroses ) is the most common form of flowering plant in the family Primulaceae, and is thought to have evolved from a common ancestor of the Primaceae. However, it is not clear how this adaptation evolved. Now, Nowak et al. have used a technique called RNA-seq to identify the genetic code for the primula supergene. This revealed that a gene called CYP734A50 is present on the short- and long-homostyles of Primulas, but it was not known how it arose. Instead, the gene is found in a group of genes called the S-locus, which determines the length of a flower’s reproductive organs and the number of flowers it produces. These genes are linked to a protein called brassinosteroid-degrading enzyme that determines which flowers are long and short. The gene was only present in one type of flower, called P. veris, while the other type was found to be long, short and low. Further experiments showed that the genes that control the style-length dimorphism were also present at the same time as the G locus that controls the L-morph gene. Together, these findings provide a mechanistic explanation for how primulas evolved and shed light on their evolutionary origins.
In mammals, the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus is a region of the brain that is responsible for the production of hormones such as gonadotropin and pituitary luteinizing hormone ( LH ). This hormone is released by two groups of neurons called the AVPV/PeN neurons and the neurokinin B ( NKB ) neurons. Kisspeptin neurons are located in the anterior preoptic area of a cell and release peptide and amino acid neurotransmitters, which are released in response to LH secretion. However, it is not clear how these neurons coordinate their activity. Now, Navarro et al. have used a combination of optogenetics, molecular pharmacology and single cell electrophysiology to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which the Kiss1 and NeK1 neurons synchronize their firing activity and how they release the hormone. The experiments show that a protein called dynorphin ( which is produced by the neurons ) and a neurotransmitter called glutamate are involved in synchronizing the firing of these two types of cells. In the experiments, a light-sensitive mouse brain was exposed to a fluorescent light, and it triggered the release of two proteins that are essential for hormone production. These proteins were then switched on and off by a process known as photostimulation. Further experiments showed that the synapses between the two protein-coupled cells were synchronized and that this synchronized activity led to the secretion of GnRH.
Bone morphogenic protein ( BMP ) is a signalling molecule that helps stem cells to differentiate into different types of cells. It is found in many tissues in the body, but it is not clear how it works. In particular, it has been known for many years that a protein called E-Cadherin regulates the formation of pluripotency and mesoderm differentiation. However, little is known about the mechanisms by which this protein is regulated. Now, Thiery et al. have used a technique called reporter strategy to examine the effects of a gene called Id1 on the development of embryonic stem ( ES ) cells in mouse embryos. The experiments show that the gene that encodes the protein helps to regulate the expression of the stem cell adhesion molecule ( Cdh1 ), which is important for the differentiation of mesodermal and neural tissues. This gene is expressed in cells that have been genetically modified so that they can be grown in a well-defined environment. These cells then undergo a process called morphogenetic events that allow them to be carefully monitored in order to identify which cells are most likely to develop into the cells they need to form. As a result, the results of these experiments reveal that cells with a low level of Cdc1 are more likely than non-pluripotent cells not to produce Cd1. Further work is now needed to understand how this process works, and whether it also works in other contexts.
The centrosome in a cell is a structure that is made up of two pairs of centrioles. The older of the two is called the ‘mother’ centroole, and is responsible for the assembly of microtubules in the plasma membrane. However, the younger of these two forms a complex called pericentriolar material ( PCM ), which helps to anchor the cell to the membrane and help it to form the spindle. This complex is also known as a “daughter centroid”. Previous studies have shown that a protein called Cep120 plays a critical role in controlling the formation of this complex. But it is not clear why CEP120 is restricted from recruiting these proteins. To investigate this question, Hori, Toda et al. used a technique called genome-editing to study the activity of a gene called CRISPR/Cas9 in mice and human cells. These experiments showed that the gene for a specific protein that encodes the daughter centrorole is blocked from producing the protein. Further experiments revealed that this protein is only found on the mother centrioole at the end of each cell cycle. In addition, it was also found to be enriched on other proteins that are important for forming the scaffolding and anchoring structures in quiescent cells, as well as in other types of cells that have been genetically engineered to have the same protein in their DNA. When this was not the case, these findings reveal a potentially new molecular defect that may explain the pathogenesis of certain diseases such as Jeune Asphyxiating Thoracic Dystrophy and Joubert syndrome.
Neurons and glial cells are the first cells in the developing brain to form a scaffolding that surrounds the inner and outer layers of the retina. In the adult brain, these cells help to maintain the structure and organization of synapses. However, little is known about the mechanisms that regulate the activity of these neurons and how they communicate with each other. To investigate this, Haydon, Nedergaard et al. used a technique called two-photon microscopy to record the movement of a group of cells known as Müller cells ( or MCs for short ). This revealed that the MC cells were able to detect and respond to different types of neurotransmitters released by the neurons. The next step will be to find out which neurotransmitter is released during these waves.
When an animal dies, it becomes a large nutrient resource that can support a complex and phylogenetically diverse community of organisms. For example, when a person dies it recycles nutrients from their body, which can be used as evidence to investigate the causes of death. This process is known as the postmortem interval ( PMI ), and it is commonly used to estimate the amount of time that has lapsed since the animal has died. However, there are many limitations to this method, including the fact that it cannot be reliably quantified using DNA sequencing. Mondor et al. have now used a technique called high-throughput sequencing to identify the microbial communities that change over the course of a corpse’s decomposition. The experiments show that bacteria, archaea, fungi, nematodes and other microbes change in response to changes in the environment around the body. These changes are dramatic, measurable and repeatable over a period of 48 days, allowing the bacteria to be accurately measured. In addition, the experiments showed that the microbes that live on the surface of the decomposing corpse can also change during this time period. Further experiments revealed that these changes were dramatic and repeated over time. Furthermore, they were consistent with changes that occurred during the period when the corpse had been exposed to oxygen. Overall, these findings provide a new tool for investigating the role of microbes in human and animal deaths.
Bilaterian animals share a common set of developmental genes. These genes are expressed along the anteroposterior axis of the planula larva, which is known as the anterior–aboral axis. However, it is not clear how the Hox genes evolved during evolution to form such a complex network of genes that are found in all bilaterians. It is thought that these networks evolved to provide information about the shape of an animal’s body during development, but it was not known how they evolved. Now, Heffer, Pick et al. have used a technique called BiFC to study the interactions between different genes in the embryo of a sea anemone called Nematostella vectensis. The experiments show that the proteins that make up this network are also present in other species, including ctenophores, sponges, and placozoans. In addition, the researchers found that some of these proteins also have an ancestral generic motif, called the hexapeptide, that is present on the surface of each protein. Together, these findings suggest that this ‘Hox-TALE‘ network emerged from a specific molecular motif that was present at the beginning of evolution. Further experiments showed that other proteins from different species also had a similar motif on their surface. This suggests that a group of proteins called homeobox and TALE proteins may have evolved together to give the same shape and function in different animals. To test this hypothesis, Meis and Chourrout compared the DNA sequences of different proteins to the genes of other animals that had similar patterns of expression in their own cells. Maintaining the similarity between the two proteins revealed that they had evolved independently from the common ancestor of many other protein families. Moreover, they were able to change their expression patterns in a variety of ways that were likely important for differentiating their roles in animal development.
Neurons communicate with each other via a network of connections called synapses. These connections are made by molecules called ionotropic glutamate receptors ( or iGluRs for short ), which bind to receptors on the surface of the synapse membrane. When the receptor is active, it travels to and from the synaptic cleft, where it is released into the cell. However, when the receptors are inactive, they do not accumulate in extrasynaptic membranes. This suggests that AMPARs are only active when they are in the post-synaptic membrane, and are not active in other locations. To investigate this, Cai et al. used a technique called super-resolution microscopy to study the movement and movement of amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors in rat hippocampal neurons. The experiments show that the size and shape of these amo- and exocytosis sites are very different from those found outside of synaptic membranes, suggesting that these sites may not be active at the same time. Further work is now needed to understand how the activity of AMPA receptors is regulated by the presence of fluorescent dyes or other fluorescent proteins. In the future, these findings may help scientists to better understand the mechanisms that underlie synaptic plasticity.
Hypoxia is a condition in which the brain loses electrical activity in response to changes in the amount of sodium ions that enter and leave the cell. This is known as a hypoxic insult, and it has been linked to brain damage in humans and other animals. In humans, the first effect of hypoxias is to increase the voltage-gated sodium ( NaV ) channels at the surface of cells. However, it is not clear how this process works. Now, Henley et al. have used a technique called microscopy to study the activity of a signaling pathway in rat cerebellar granule neurons ( CGN ). The experiments show that the SUMO pathway activates the small Ubiquitin-like Modifier, a protein that encodes the sodium ion channel, which is present in all eukaryotic cells and is widely distributed throughout the nervous system. Further experiments showed that this pathway is activated by a molecule called SUMOMO. It is thought to be responsible for the activation of the large ion channels, but it was not fully understood how it works in mammals. When a rat neuron was exposed to a chemical called tetrodotoxin ( or TIIIA for short ), an enzyme that is active on the membrane of its cell surface was switched on and off. After 40 s of exposure to the chemical, this enzyme was able to change the position of one of three ion-subunits that are present on its surface and activate the other two ion subunits. These two enzymes were found to interact with each other in a way that made it possible for them to switch on or off in less than 30 s. Together, these findings suggest that these two pathways are important targets for neuroprotective interventions. They could also be used to treat epilepsy and febrile seizures.
Mosquitoes carry a virus called the Ross River Virus ( RRV for short ) that is transmitted between humans and other animals. The virus is found in tropical, subtropical and temperate areas of Australia, where most people live. However, it is not well understood how the virus spreads in these areas. Now, Mordecai et al. have developed a mathematical model that predicts that the transmission of the disease is year-round endemic in the tropics, and declines at high and low temperatures. In addition, the model predicted that transmission peaks at intermediate temperatures ( 26. 0 and 31. 5°C ), while the lower temperatures of low and high temperatures are more likely to be the same. This suggests that this is the case for most diseases, but not all diseases. For example, a mosquito-borne pathogen called Aedes [Ochlerotatus] vigilax is most commonly transmitted to humans in Australia and the Pacific Islands. But it was not clear whether this was true for other mosquito species, such as the saltmarsh mosquitoes, which are responsible for many diseases transmitted by humans. To address this question, researchers used mathematical models to model the distribution of disease transmission in Australian mosquitoes. These models were then used to predict the temperature at which a disease was transmitted in a tropical area. When temperatures were above the thermal optimum, transmission peaked at moderate temperatures and then declined to zero at the low temperature. Overall, this model accurately predicted the timing and extent of transmission. It also predicted a seasonal peak in human cases. Further work is now needed to understand how climate change will affect the ability of mosquitoes to transmit disease.
Motor activity in the brain is known as beta oscillations. This oscillation is thought to occur during specific motor actions, such as isometric contraction and precision reaching. However, it is not clear how the activity of the motor cortex is linked to the behavior of other brain cells. To investigate this question, Fries et al. trained three macaque monkeys to perform a motor task. The monkeys were trained to carry out the task by moving their arms and legs. When the monkeys reached an arm-reaching position, they were asked to move their brains to a more instructed state. After performing this task, the animals were instructed to reach out their left arm and perform the arm reach. These monkeys then performed the same task again, but this time with a different brain cell that had been trained in a similar way. In the experiments, three of these monkeys performed a task called arm reaching, which involved moving the right arm to an instructed position and then performing a hand-to-hand movement. During the experiment, each monkey’s brain activity was recorded as it moved its head and body parts. It was then possible to measure how much of this activity changed after the monkey had reached the target. Future studies are needed to understand how these brain changes reflect the underlying neural activity that is involved in motor activity.
The immune system is made up of a group of proteins called TNF receptors, which bind to receptors on the surface of the cell. These receptors are known as cytokines, and they are responsible for regulating the activity of certain immune cells. However, it is not clear how the role of TRAF2 is regulated in adult tissues. Previous studies have shown that mice that have a mutation in the gene that codes for a protein called sphingosine-1-phosphate do not have the same regulatory role as normal mice. This is because the protein is unable to interact with other proteins, such as proteins that are called ubiquitin E3 ligases. It is thought that this protein can only be activated by a single protein, called SPHK1, but it has not been shown to be required for this role. Now, Alvarez et al. have studied mice with a mutant form that had a mutated version that did not contain the mutated gene. The experiments show that the mutant mutant mice had less than one protein that was required to activate the SPH1 protein. In this mutant, the mice developed a skin condition called psoriasis-like epidermal hyperplasia and skin inflammation caused by excessive apoptosis and the death of many cells, including lymphocytes and keratinocytes. Further work is now needed to find out if this is the case in adults.
Synapses are a network of connections that connect the brain and spinal cord. Synapses contain many different types of synaptic vesicles, which are made up of different parts of the cell called synapses. Each synapse contains a small area of membrane called the plasma membrane, and these membranes are quickly recaptured from the membrane and recycled for the generation of new synaptic connections. However, it is not clear how this process works. To investigate this question, Raimondi et al. used a technique called electron microscopy ( EM ) to study the activity of neurons in a worm called Caenorhabditis elegans. The experiments showed that the cells in the worm’s central nervous system produce large endocytic vacuoles, or ‘bulk” endosomes, that are smaller than the membranes of individual neurons. When the neurons were exposed to high levels of a strong stimulus, they were unable to separate from their membranes. Instead, the synaptic membrane was re-circulated in parallel with the movement of their membrane. This suggests that a process called clathrin is involved in this reformation. In the experiments, dynamin was added selectively after the neuron had been knocked out, but it was not accompanied by the accumulation of large clusters of endocomes. These clusters did not disappear as quickly as previously thought, suggesting that this is the case. Further experiments also revealed that there is a pathway that bypasses the requirement for a large cluster of cells to form new synaptops. Finally, these findings support the idea that other mechanisms are also involved. Future work will be needed to understand how these mechanisms work and to find out how they work.
Glucocorticoids are among the most commonly prescribed drugs, but there is no biomarker that can measure their effect on the body’s response to stress. This is because it is not possible to measure the effects of the drugs themselves, and there are currently no effective treatments for these conditions. To address this issue, Oster, Cidlowski et al. studied 10 people with adrenal insufficiency, a type of diabetes that is linked to high levels of cortisol, in the blood. These patients were exposed to a drug that increases the production of a protein that helps to regulate cortisol levels. They were then treated with a combination of drugs that reduced the amount of corticosterone in their blood and reduced their intake of sugar. The results showed that the effect of these drugs was similar to those seen in humans. However, it was not clear how these effects were measured. In the experiments, the researchers used a technique called multi-omic analysis to identify biomarkers that could be used to determine whether or not the drug was effective. When the volunteers were given a placebo, they were shown to be more sensitive to cortisol than those who were not given the placebo. Further experiments revealed that a gene called miR-122-5p, which is expressed in blood mononuclear cells and adipose tissue, was correlated with the activity of genes and metabolites regulated by cortisol. A similar gene expression was found in subjects with Addison's disease and healthy controls. Overall, these findings suggest that there may be a number of different types of stress-related factors that affect the ability of glucocortexicoid to work.
Amino acids are essential for protein synthesis and growth. A protein called rapamycin complex 1 ( mTORC1 ) is found on the surface of the cell’s outer membrane, where it is activated by a complex of proteins called RAGULATOR, RAPTOR and the vacuolar ATPase. When a protein is lacking in amino acids, the complex switches on or off the activity of this protein, which causes it to become inactive. This is known as a “translocation” event, and it has been suggested that this process is triggered by the presence of a molecule called leucine. However, it was not clear how the translocation occurs. Now, Bar-Peled et al. have used live imaging to investigate this mechanism. The experiments show that a small protein complex that is responsible for sensing the movement of amino acid molecules is active in the late endosomal membrane. It is also possible to see how this activity is regulated by other proteins that are also involved in this pathway. In the experiments, a fluorescent molecule was used to detect the active form of RapTOR, while another molecule – called Sestrin2 – was present on lysosomes. Both of these molecules were able to activate the protein in a way that was similar to that seen in living cells. These results suggest that the activation of MTORc1 is a transient event that occurs within 2 min and peaking within 5 min. Further work is now needed to understand how these events occur.
Antigen-presenting cells ( or APCs for short ) are immune cells that are able to detect and respond to invading pathogens. The APC is made up of a group of cells called dendritic cells and macrophages, which can sense and send signals to other cells in the body to trigger the immune response. Antigens that originate from tumor cells or viruses are known as glycosylated, but it is not clear how these glycan-binding proteins work. One way to find out is to use a molecule called Ovalbumin ( OVA ) that recognizes the glycans of an antigen and then sends it to a receptor called MGL1. This receptor is called the C-type lectin receptor, and is responsible for sending the antigen to the CD8+ T cell. However, little is known about how the complex of lectins that bind to these receptors works. Singh, Singh et al. have now used a technique called mass spectrometry to study the effects of the modification on the production of OVO in mice. In the experiments, the mice were exposed to high amounts of oVA and were unable to distinguish between the two types of T cells. Further experiments showed that the modifications made by the LAMP1 receptor alter the ability of these T-cells to recognize the glycans. These findings suggest that a modified version of UVA can be used to switch on or off the receptors that recognize and transmit the G-protein complex molecules. It is also possible that this modification may be beneficial for other immune responses, such as the development of long-lasting memory.
Bacterial quorum sensing ( or QS for short ) is one of the most common ways that bacteria can control their own genes. In some bacteria, it is possible to control hundreds of genes in a group. For example, a bacterium called Burkholderia thailandensis uses a protein called acyl-homoserine lactone ( AHL ) to regulate the production of milk proteins. The AHLs are made by members of a family of signal synthases called the T6SS-1 family, which are involved in regulating the expression of many genes, including many of those that are important for public health. However, there are also many other mechanisms that control the growth of bacteria in groups. One of these mechanisms is called type VI secretion. This allows bacteria to produce a toxin that is harmful to the environment, such as milk protein, but it does not affect how the bacteria grow. To test this hypothesis, Russell et al. genetically engineered the B. thaiensis bacteria so that they could produce toxin-resistant mutant bacteria. These mutants were able to grow faster than the wild-type bacteria when they were grown on a solid agar surface. They also had a higher fitness advantage over the mutant that was grown in broth cocultures. Further experiments showed that the cells that produced the toxin and its antitoxin were more likely to multiply when the bacterial cells were growing on the surface of their host cell than when it was growing in the laboratory. Finally, the experiments show that this mechanism can be used to police and constrain mutant growth. Future work is now needed to understand how this system works.
In the adult rodent brain, the activity of neurons in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus plays a key role in learning and memory. However, it is not clear how these regions of the brain coordinate their activity during development. Previous studies have suggested that a pattern of activity called the ‘spindle bursts’ is responsible for these oscillations. These bursts are accompanied by rapid discharges ( gamma and gamma waves ) that are faster than the beta waves. In the hippocampus, these bursts synchronize the firing and discharging of individual neurons, but they do not occur at the same frequency as theta bursts. Instead, they occur in different frequency bands. This suggests that the spindle burst is necessary for the development of memory and attentional abilities early in life. Now, Luhmann et al. have used a technique called optogenetic manipulation to manipulate the electrical activity in a region of either the dorsal hippocampus or the intermediate/ventral hippocampus at neonatal age. The experiments show that this region is mainly coupled with the hippocampal hippocampus by phase-locking of neuronal firing via direct axonal projections called pyramidal projections. Further experiments showed that these projections were also activated by electrical signals from neurons that were either active in either dorsal or intermediate hippocampus during the early stages of development, whereas they were not activated in intermediate or ventral hippocampi. Overall, this work provides new insights into the mechanisms that drive the formation of long-range connections between neurons and the developing brain.
RNA polymerase II ( RNAPII ) is a protein-coding enzyme that is involved in the production of proteins and other molecules. RNA polymerases are made up of a series of repeating repeats that are then phosphorylated at the end of the RNA molecule to form a molecule called a chromatin, which is then used to make proteins. The chromatization process is carried out by a group of enzymes called transcription factors that control the activity of genes and the expression of messenger RNAs ( mRNA molecules ). This process involves a complex array of modifications to RNA molecules that can be made at different stages of transcription. For example, one of these modifications, called K7me1, is present at a region called the C-terminal domain ( CTD ), and is responsible for the assembly of new RNA. However, it is not clear how this modification works in vertebrates and invertebrates. Simonti et al. used biochemical and genome-wide approaches to study the role of CTDs at gene promoters in different organisms. First, the experiments showed that the proteins that make up the DNA were made in a structurally-disordered manner. Then, a second modification was made to another protein called Lysine-7. These two modifications were observed in both vertebrate and non-celled organisms, including humans and mammals. Together, these findings suggest that a balance between methylation and acetylation is important for gene expression. Future work is now needed to determine whether other modifications are also found in other organisms and how they interact with each other.
Skeletal muscle satellite cells ( SCs ) are a small population of muscle cells that are able to repair muscle tissue and repair it. However, they can also become quiescent and die when they are injured, which can lead to a loss of the muscle cell population. When a muscle injury occurs, the SC cells are unable to regenerate and self-renew to replenish the stem cell pool. This is due to the absence of a protein called MyoD, a transcriptional regulator of myogenic commitment. A protein known as Tristetraprolin ( or TTP for short ) is involved in this process, but it is not clear exactly how it works. To investigate this question, Farina et al. studied gene transcripts that were differentially expressed in mice that had been injured. The experiments show that the mRNA decay factor is a key component of this protein’s activity, and that it plays a critical role in maintaining myoblast formation. In the experiments, mice were genetically engineered to lack the gene that encodes the protein. These mice also had a mutation in their gene expression that prevented them from producing the transcription factor. Further experiments showed that a gene called TRISTETRAPROlin was also expressed during the activation process of skeletal muscle satellites cells, suggesting that this gene regulation process is important for maintaining the healthy muscle population in the future.
Infants with defects in the interleukin 10 receptor ( IL10R ) are more likely to develop inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) than healthy infants. This is partly due to the fact that many of the genes involved in inflammation in infants are inherited from their parents. However, it is not clear whether the same genes also play an important role during the early stages of life, or if they are also important for the development of colitis. To address this question, Shouval et al. studied mice that lacked the gene for IL 10R in early childhood. The experiments show that mice lacking the receptor develop a condition called infantile-onset inflammation. These mice have a mutation in a gene that causes a protein known as the IL-10 receptor, which is found on the surface of macrophages. When the mice were exposed to a bacterium called clodronate, the immune cells that make up the mouse’s intestine were less active than normal. In addition, these mice had fewer inflammatory cells in their gut lining, suggesting that the lack of IL11R signaling is necessary to prevent the formation of inflammation early in life. Further work is now needed to understand the role of this signaling pathway in preventing inflammation, and to identify the molecular mechanisms that contribute to this process.
In many eukaryotes, a protein called a small RNA molecule ( or piRNA for short ) is involved in the production of proteins that are essential for the cell’s survival. These small RNAs are made up of a group of amino acids called Argonaute proteins, which are bound to piRNAs. In many organisms, the PiRNA pathway is controlled by the mutator complex. This complex consists of several different types of RNA molecules, each of which has a different role in regulating the activity of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. However, it is not clear what role these proteins play in C. elegans. To investigate this question, Chen et al. used a technique called CRISPR-Cas9 to identify the Tudor domain protein that plays a key role. It was found to bind to a region of DNA called the P granule, and to another region called Mutator foci, where the DNA is made. Further experiments showed that SIMR-1 is responsible for both the initiation and the silencing of PiRNA. The experiments also identified two other condensates, known as the T granules and Mutators Foci. Together, these two locations are the sites where a large number of different Piwi proteins are produced, while another condenser, called MATH-33, is required to make the same protein. Both of these sites are known to play important roles in controlling the activities of piRAs, but it was not known whether they also play a similar role for other proteins in other organisms such as worms and fruit fly larvae.
The cerebellum is a part of the brain that is responsible for learning motor skills such as walking and motor coordination. It is made up of three major parts: the corpus and the lateral lobe, which are subdivided into two layers. These layers are connected to each other by a network of spines called ‘molecular fibers’. Purkinje neurons in zebrafish are the only output neuron in the cerebular cortex, and they are able to switch from one state to another spontaneously or with current injection. However, it is not clear how these neurons can switch between different states at the same time. To investigate this question, Hsieh et al. recorded the activity patterns of neurons from a larval fish called Danio rerio in an unanesthetized state. The recordings showed that the neurons were active in both depolarized and “down” states. In addition, the cells in this state were more active when they were exposed to current injections. This suggests that these cells are bistable in a variety of ways. For example, neurons that are active at different times of day and in different stages of development are less likely to spontaneously switch to one or the other than when the animals are awake. Further experiments show that this process is dependent on the activation of climbing fibers by climbing fiber ( CFs ) to trigger bursts of electrical activity. Moreover, this activity pattern is similar to that seen in electric fish and other animals, but it was not known whether the patterns observed in these animals were similar in humans or in animals that were not awake, or if they had been artificially induced. Now, Hamling, Vibulyaseck and Häusser have used a technique called whole-cell patch clamp recording to study the neural activity of a type of neuron known as a cerebrospinal cord ( or CCe for short ). Using this technique, they have shown that cells that have been genetically engineered to be active for a long time are more likely than those that do not have a cell membrane. Therefore, these findings provide a new model system for studying how neurons behave in awake animals.
Cell membranes are made up of a network of proteins called actin filaments, which are attached to the cell’s outer membrane and pull it inward to form a structure called an endocytosis ( or “endocytic pit” for short ). This process involves the formation of large structures known as ‘branched actins networks‘. These networks are formed by a protein called Arp2/3, a group of protein-binding proteins that are involved in the assembly of these structures. The structure of the ring-like structures is similar to that found in a flat sheet. However, it is not clear how the rings of ArP2-3 are able to organize themselves into such a tight structure. To investigate this question, Almeida-Souza et al. used a technique called cryo-electron tomography to count the number of active proteins in human cells that assemble at the site of clathrin-mediated endoosis. Using this method, the researchers found that ~200 activated proteins are required to build a ring around the center of each ring, and that around 200 of them are active in this ring. Further experiments showed that, in response to high levels of chemical stress, these proteins bend and bend to produce more force. Together these findings show that a minimal ring of acti networks is sufficient to make the membrane flexible enough to withstand the stresses of cell migration. In the future, this work could be applied to a wide range of cellular processes, from cytokinesis and cell migrations, to cytokine production and trafficking.
Macropinocytosis is a process that allows cells to take up large volumes of liquid from the surface of the cell. Macropinosomes form from small ruffles in the membrane of a cell called the plasma membrane, which is enclosed by a ring of actin molecules. This ring contains a protein called PIP3, and acts as a template for other molecules that can be taken up by other cells. However, it is not well understood how the formation of macropinoomes in cells is controlled. To find out, Bloomfield, Swanson et al. used a technique called lattice light sheet microscopy to study the shape and activity of cells in Dictyostelium, a bacterium that is thought to be involved in cancer. The experiments show that when the cells divide, they form a large cup shaped like a ruffle. These cups form by splitting from existing ones and forming a new cup-shaped ring around the ring. In addition to forming the new cups, this ring also helps to recruit a group of other proteins, including active Ras and active Rasp, to form the rings. When these proteins are mutated, these rings form into a ‘crown’ that surrounds the cup and surrounds it. As a result, the cups can grow in size, but they do not form in a circular fashion. Instead, when Ras is mutated and Ras becomes active, Ras forms a patch on the outer membrane that encloses the inner ring and forms the final cup. Further work is now needed to understand how this process works.
Cohesin is a ring-shaped protein complex that wraps around sister chromatids, which is essential for cell division. When a cell divides into two, the two copies of the same gene are separated by a process called anaphase. This process is called cohesination, and it is important for the cell to divide correctly. However, when a gene is mutated, it can lead to a severe developmental disorder called Cornelia de Lange Syndrome ( CDLS ). The disease is caused by the loss of a protein called Scc2NIPBL ( SCC2/4Mau2 ) in yeast cells. It is thought that this protein is involved in the formation of sister chromosomes, but it was not clear how this process works. Now, Murayama et al. have used a technique called TPR to study the interaction between two proteins in budding yeast. They found that a patch on the surface of one of these proteins is required to bind to the protein. In the experiments, this patch was found to be a conserved patch that envelops a group of proteins that are known to play a key role in cohesion. Further experiments showed that the patch also encodes an array of other proteins. These proteins are also found in other eukaryotes, including yeasts and metazoans. Together, these findings reveal the role of this complex in determining the location and location of its protein and its interactions with the DNA. Future work will be needed to understand how the proteins interact with each other and to identify the molecular basis for this interaction.
Animals are born late in the reproductive season, which is the time of the year when most animals are hibernating. This means that they need to use their body fat reserves to survive the winter and reproduce. However, it is not clear how this process works. Now, Stumpfel et al. have used a technique called daily torpor to study the effects of hibernation on early-born ( ‘EB’ ) juvenile garden dormice. The experiments show that, during the first few weeks of winter, the larvae grow and fatten faster than those born later in winter. In the spring, these larvae use the energy stored by the placenta as their primary source of energy. During this time, they use this energy to increase their growth rate, fattening, and increase the amount of fat stored in their bodies. Further experiments showed that the same patterns of growth were observed in both the early and later stages of larval growth. These findings suggest that early larvae are more likely to be born in late winter than later larvae. Furthermore, late larvae grew faster and gained more fat during their winter survival and reproduction. Moreover, when they were born at the end of their reproductive year, LB larvae gained mass at an even higher rate than EB larvae, but did not grow as fast as EB juveniles. Overall, this study suggests that this may be a response to the lack of food resources and the need for energy storage. Future studies are also needed to determine if other strategies may also be used to cope with this problem.
The human brain contains the highest level of adenosine deaminases ( ADARs ) in the genome, which are responsible for controlling the activity of many genes. However, it is not clear exactly how these gene editing enzymes work. To investigate this question, Wessels et al. used a technique called RNA-to-I editing to identify the genes that are involved in controlling gene expression in worms. The experiments revealed that worms lacking the gene that codes for the enzyme ADR-2 can have a neurological disorder called chemotaxis. This disorder is caused by the loss of the ability of a gene to bind to a target RNA molecule, called an inosine ( I ) molecule. It is thought that this editing process alters the expression of genes, but it was not known how it works. Instead, the experiments identified 7361 genes in C. elegans, a type of worm that is normally found in all living organisms. These genes were edited to make a protein called clec-41, and the worms were then exposed to chemomechanical disruption to see if they had any of these editing sites. In the end, these worms had a reduced ability to communicate with each other and were less able to move around in their environment. Further work is now needed to understand how this process works in other organisms, including humans.
Influenza A viruses ( or IAVs for short ) cause an infectious disease that affects millions of people worldwide. These viruses use a common strategy called host shutoff to prevent the production of viral proteins. This strategy is known as “cap-snatching”, and is used by many viruses to stop the translation of the viral mRNA into proteins that are needed for the cell’s protein synthesis machinery. However, it is not clear exactly how this mechanism works. Now, Ingolia et al. have used RNA-sequencing and ribosome profiling to investigate the mechanisms that enable the IA virus to shut off its host mRNA. The experiments show that the virus uses a combination of two complementary mechanisms: direct translation co-opting and host RNA degradation. First, the viruses cleave the RNA molecules that bind to the mRNA molecules. Second, viral RNA is degraded by a process called oxidative phosphorylation. In the experiments, a group of cells that had been infected with the influenza A virus were genetically engineered so that they could be used as a model organism to study the role of viruses in cell production. When the cells were pre-treated with a drug called harringtonine, they were less likely to be able to produce the proteins they needed to make. Further experiments revealed that viruses that do not have a cap on their mRNA mRNA are less affected by the flu virus than those that lack one. Moreover, viruses with short mRNA transcripts are much less susceptible to infection by flu viruses, suggesting that this is due to a mechanism that prevents them from making the protein they need to multiply. Overall, these findings suggest that host-mediated viral shut-off is an important public health problem.
When a cell divides, it sends signals to another cell in the cell’s environment. These signals then move to the recipient cell, where they interact with each other to form a gradient. This gradient is known as a “gradient”, and it has been proposed that the gradient forms in a large population of cells. However, the exact details of how these gradients form are not fully understood. For example, how a signaling protein called FGF moves from producing cells to receiving cells is not well understood, but it is thought that it helps to control the distribution of the signals. Now, Du et al. have used live imaging technology to study the movement of a fluorescently-tagged signal protein, called Fibroblast Growth Factor β ( FGFR for short ), in fruit flies. The experiments revealed that a gene that is expressed in fibroblasts called cytonemes is responsible for the formation of gradient shapes and contours. In the larvae of fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, this gene is present in many types of tissue, including the wing-disc and the air-sac-primordium. Importantly, these cells also express a receptor called Breathless, which is essential for cell-to-cell communication. Further experiments showed that this receptor is active in both the developing and developing tissues. Moreover, when the cells are separated from the source, they are able to switch on the expression of two other signaling proteins called Pointed-P1 at higher levels and Cut at lower levels. Together these findings reveal a new mechanism by which the flow of signals through the tissues is dynamically modulated to create gradient shape and shape. Future work will be needed to understand how this process works in more detail.
Coiled coils are one of the most well-understood protein domains. They consist of two α-helices, wound into superhelical bundles and held together by a core that is hydrophobic. The coiled coil is the first protein domain to be described in atomic detail, and it is also the only one whose backbone structure can be computed with parametric equations. However, it has been difficult to understand the structure of these coils because they are so complex. To understand how they work, Hartmann et al. used a technique called “coiled-coil theory” to create a structure that mimics the shape of a protein coil. This revealed that two or six residues are inserted into the underlying heptad repeat to form a ‘stranded’ structure. These insertions are then used to make a new type of protein, called α/β, which is able to move the path of its chain by 120° around the trimer axis. In addition, the insertion of six or seven residues into this structure causes the protein to break down, leading to the formation of short β-strands that move along the hemispheres of this protein. It is not clear how this new structure is possible in the Ramachandran space, but it appears that it could be possible within the allowed regions of that space with only minor mutations to a known protein fold.
Clathrin is one of the most important proteins in the cell, and it is thought to play an important role in many processes. However, the exact role of epsin in this process remains unclear. It is known that it binds to a protein called Eps15, which is found in mammals, but it has not been shown to be involved in endocytosis. Instead, it was thought that the protein is responsible for the formation of pits and fission of clathrins. This is because Epsin is made up of three groups of proteins. One of these groups is called the ‘superior’ group, while the other two groups are known as the super-complex group. The supercomplex consists of a helix at the N-terminus that is folded into an amphipathic shape and the actin cytoskeleton. These two proteins interact with each other to form a protective coat that protects the cells from damage caused by a chemical called 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen ( or SNARE for short ). SnAREs are proteins that bind to other proteins and are important for cell division. Now, Skruzny et al. have used a technique called triple KO to genetically engineer mice to produce mutant mice that lacked the ability to divide. In the experiments, these mice were genetically engineered to lack the three-dimensional structure that makes up the outer layer of their cell. When the mutant cells were grown in a laboratory, they were unable to differentiate between the two types of cells. Further experiments showed that this defect was due to the loss of one gene that encodes the enzyme that codes for a molecule called SNAR ( short for “snake-like” ) and a low affinity interaction with another gene called EPSIN. As a result, this gene was no longer able to generate the force needed to break down the membrane and form pits. Furthermore, when the mice developed a defect in their development, their cells developed into pits that were much larger than normal. A further challenge will be to find out why this is the case in humans.
Asthma is one of the most common non-communicable conditions among children in Africa, and is the second-leading cause of death in the world. In Uganda, children born in small towns and in urban areas have a higher risk of asthma compared to children whose parents live in rural areas. However, it is not clear what causes asthma. To investigate this question, Nkurunungi et al. used a case-control study to identify the main risk factors for asthma among schoolchildren in Uganda and other low-income countries ( LMICs ). The study involved 555 cases and 1115 controls. These children lived in a small town or in an urban area, but their parents were more likely to have asthma than their children’s parents. This suggests that there are a number of environmental and lifestyle factors that may contribute to asthma risk. For example, the parents of children who had asthma had higher levels of alcohol and tobacco smoke than those who did not have alcohol or tobacco smoking. Further investigation revealed that asthma was associated with a strong rural-town-city risk gradient, higher parental socio-economic status and urbanicity. Moreover, there was also an increase in exposure to a chemical called nitric oxide, which is found in plants and animals that are polluting the air. Together, these findings suggest that environmental factors may play an important role in increasing the likelihood that children with asthma will develop asthma later in life. Future studies are also needed to investigate the impact of other factors, such as the environment in which the children live.
The stripes on the trunk of an adult zebrafish are made up of three types of cells called chromatophores, which are responsible for the patterning of the stripes. These cells are also involved in the formation of light and dark stripes, and they are required to form the stripe pattern. However, it is not clear how these cells work together to create these patterns. A gene called Connexin 41. 8 ( Cx41. 4 ) is required for this pattern to be formed. This gene encodes a type of pigment cell called a gap junction subunit. The gap junctions are found in both the body and the tail of a fish, but it was not known how they work. Now, Singh et al. have identified three different variants of this gene in adult leopard ( Danio rerio ) that cause a pattern of dark and light stripes to appear on their bodies and tailfins. One of these variants is known as luchs. In the mutant version of leo, the gaps between the two pigment cells form a series of irregular patterns that are not seen in other species of fish. Further experiments have shown that the cells that make these gaps form heteromeric gaps, while the other two types are only required in iridophore cells and not in leotK3 cells. When these two cell types were not present in these mutant animals, they formed an irregular pattern that was almost identical to the one that had been observed in wild-type leopards. But in mutant fish with the same mutation, these stripes did not form at all. Instead, a new gene that codes for Luchs was found to have a dominant negative effect on this particular cell type. As a result, this new mutation caused the striped patterns to become irregular, suggesting that this is due to a lack of interconnections between these three pigments. More studies are now needed to find out how this occurs.
The olfactory sense is one of the most sensitive senses in the world. It is able to detect a wide range of odors, including volatile, air-borne chemicals, and it can detect many different types of odor molecules. However, it is not clear when and how these receptors evolved independently. To investigate this question, Missbach et al. looked at the genes that are involved in detecting volatile chemicals and found three species of insect called Lepismachilis y-signata, Thermobia domestica and Phyllium siccifolium. These insects are the closest relatives of all living animals and have evolved from an aquatic ancestor, probably around 483 mya ( the Early Ordovician ). Insects detect volatile molecules by detecting them using a combination of ionotropic receptors ( or ORs for short ) and gustatory receptors, which are also found in leaf and stick insects. The results of this study suggest that the evolution of these receptor families evolved later in insect evolution, before the emergence of leaf or stick insect species. In addition, the results show that insects evolved a more complex system of receptors that could detect the odor of volatile compounds. This suggests that insect receptors did not evolve as an adaptation to a terrestrial lifestyle. Instead, they evolved as a response to the presence of other odor-specific receptors. Further work is now needed to determine how the insect receptor family evolved.
Malaria is one of the most common infectious diseases in the world. The disease is transmitted by parasites called malaria parasites, which are found in soil, water and soil. Many countries are trying to eliminate the malaria parasite by using mass drug administration ( MDA ). However, it is not clear how effective this approach is. Landier et al. studied four villages in Myanmar, and found that people who did not participate in malaria treatment were less likely to have an episode of malaria. In addition, people from low adherence neighborhoods had a higher risk of having a malaria episode than those from high adherence areas. This suggests that the population may not be enough to prevent malaria from spreading, but that it may be possible to reduce or eliminate malaria in a small number of people. Further studies are needed to find out if this is the case.
DNA is made up of thousands of different proteins, each of which has a specific role in the cell’s DNA. Many of these proteins have specific roles, such as binding to specific sites on the DNA, which are known as “binding specificities”. However, it is not clear how the evolutionary divergence between vertebrates and invertebrates has led to the emergence of new types of cells. To investigate this, Jolma et al. used a technique called HT-SELEX to compare the binding specificity of 242 proteins from different species of fruit fly. The experiments revealed that, unlike humans, fruit flies do not have a particular binding specificity. Instead, many of the proteins are expressed in different ways, and some of them are very similar to those found in humans and other animals. This suggests that the differences between the two species may be due to differences in how DNA is bound to proteins. In addition, the experiments also showed that some proteins that are more specific to one type of protein, called transcription factors ( TFs ), are highly conserved between mammals and birds. These findings suggest that evolution of TF proteins may have influenced the development of many new cell types, including new cells that can be differentiated from other species.
The heart and the lung are the two main organs in the chest cavity. Together, these organs are responsible for the development of the body’s tissues and organs. The heart is the main organ, while the lungs and endoderm contribute to the heart. However, it is not clear how these two organs coordinate their development. To investigate this question, Chen et al. used a technique called 3D suspension culture to create a single culture of human embryonic stem cells. This allowed the cells to be differentiated into two different types of cells, each containing a different type of tissue. These cells were then grown in a laboratory environment and then genetically modified to produce a new form of stem cell called a human-induced pluripotent stem ( hiPSC for short ). When this process took place, the embryos were able to develop into both heart- and lung-derived cells with the help of a small molecule called WNT agonist. In the absence of any new growth factors, this resulted in both cells becoming the same size and shape, which is essential for their proper development and maturation. Chen and co-workers then developed a stepwise strategy to ensure that both of these cells could be distinguished from each other, and that they could then be switched on and off during the embryonic development process. By using a series of small molecules that selectively switched off the activity of both the cardiac and pulmonary progenitor cells in this step-wise process, researchers could now investigate the relationship between the embryo and its own tissues.
Mutations are necessary for an organism to survive in stressful environments. For example, if a cell is exposed to high levels of ethanol, it can only survive for a few generations. However, mutations can also be beneficial if the cell adapts to changes in the environment. This is the case for many organisms, such as bacteria, viruses and bacteria. Mutations can be harmful to the organism’s DNA, but they are also beneficial to its survival. In fact, the rate of mutation in a bacterium called Salmonella is so high that it has been suggested that the mutation rate may be limited in time. But it is not clear how mutations are able to adapt to stress. Now, Voordeckers et al. have used bacteria grown under optimal conditions as a model system to study the evolution of mutations. The experiments show that different strains of bacteria grow under different conditions, including high ethanol concentrations, and that they can adapt quickly to these conditions. Further experiments showed that mutations in different bacteria can rapidly increase in frequency when cells experience higher ethanol levels. Moreover, when the bacteria are adapted to a high level of stress, they increase their mutation rates and decrease their survival rate. These findings suggest that, in some situations, a mutation is necessary to ensure that a population can survive and survive under high concentrations of the high-end ethanol. Furthermore, this flexibility allows the cells to evolve faster and more efficiently, which helps explain why some organisms are prone to hypermutation. Overall, these findings shed new light on the dynamics of evolution and may help explain the prevalence of hypermutators in clinical settings.
All living things need to adjust their metabolism to changing conditions. Plants, for example, have a protein called SNRK1, which regulates the activity of a number of enzymes, including a transcription factor called AMPK. These enzymes are also involved in the metabolism of other organisms, such as animals, plants and mammals. In plants, the gene for a gene that codes for the protein for protein kinase 1 is regulated in two ways: by a process called reversible phosphorylation, and by massive transcriptional reprogramming. However, it is not clear how this process works in animals and plants. To investigate this question, Matiolli et al. genetically engineered Arabidopsis thaliana plants to be able to switch from fermentative to oxidative metabolism. The experiments showed that the enzyme was activated when the plant was exposed to a chemical called bZIP63, a type of sugar that is found in many animals. Further experiments revealed that this protein was also activated under conditions that were similar to starvation, but not at the same level. This suggests that a specific protein is responsible for this switch in metabolism and that it may also play an important role in regulating the production of sugars and other energy-consuming molecules. Matisollis, Veerabagu and Tome have now identified a new protein that plays a similar role as the one that controls the sugar response in plant cells. It is also unclear whether the changes in gene expression in plants are caused by the addition of glucose or by other factors.
Synapses and nuclei are connected by a network of channels that allow information to pass between the brain and the nervous system. Synapses communicate with each other via channels called synapses, which are located at the postsynaptic membrane and are responsible for transmitting information between neurons. However, it is not clear how these connections are translated into changes in gene expression. To investigate this question, Karpova et al. studied a protein messenger called RNF10. This messenger messenger is made of a group of proteins called GluN2A subunits that bind to a receptor called NMDARs. The experiments showed that the protein interacts with a subunit of NMDA receptors called long-term potentiation ( or LTP for short ). In the experiments, the messenger was found to interact with the receptor at a specific location in the neuron’s synapse, where it binds to another protein that is present at another site called the nucleus. Further experiments revealed that this protein is involved in a process that involves the release of calcium ions into the cell, but not the transport of this calcium ion. Finally, a new protein called Ring Finger protein 10 was identified as a messenger that could be used to transport the gene from the synaptic site to the nuclear localization signal. These experiments show that a molecule called ring finger protein10 is able to move from a region of the excitatory neuron to its nucleus by binding to an amino acid called importin. Together, these findings suggest that these proteins are important for the transmission of information, and that they may also play a role in regulating the activity of other genes. Future work is now needed to understand how this process is carried out.
DNA is a part of the cell’s DNA, which is made up of a series of structures called nucleosomes. A group of enzymes called Swi2/Snf2 ATPases remodel DNA to control a wide range of DNA-associated processes. The enzymes are found in many different types of cells, but the details of how they do this are not fully understood. For example, it is not clear how the enzymes interact with the DNA and the histone fold of their DNA. To investigate this question, Afonine et al. used a technique called X-ray crystallography to study the structure of an enzyme called Mot1 in a complex with a protein called TATA box-binding protein ( TBP ) and a transcription regulator called negative cofactor 2 ( NC2 ). In the experiments, the enzyme was found to be able to bind to the TABB binding protein in an ATP-dependent manner. Further experiments showed that the complex was much more stable in the presence of N-terminal domains that are bound to DNA than those found on the other domains. This suggests that this complex may be a useful model system for studying the activity of other enzymes.
Cyclic peptides are a group of proteins that control many aspects of the body’s biological processes. These proteins are made up of two or more N-methylated cyclic amino acids, and they are able to bind to specific proteins. However, it is not clear how these proteins work together. To investigate this question, Krastel et al. used a technique called a photo-affinity probe to reveal the structure and structure of five different versions of a protein called ternatin. The experiments revealed that the proteins involved in the production of this protein are cytotoxic toward cancer cells, while the other two proteins, called aminoacyl-tRNA and cyclophilin-4, inhibit the cell's ability to grow and divide. In the future, these compounds could be used as drugs and potential leads for cancer and immune diseases.
The human genome contains 10 genes that encode a protein called inositol 5-phosphatase ( OCRL for short ). This protein is found in all cells, but it is not known exactly how it interacts with other proteins. Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease are caused by mutations in one of these genes, which are known to cause defects in the structure of the cell membrane. These defects are thought to be due to the presence of a group of proteins called kinases and phosphatases. However, it was not clear how this protein works. To investigate this question, Wang et al. used a technique called mass spectrometry to look at the activity of an enzyme called SNX9 in human fibroblasts. The experiments revealed that the enzyme is involved in a process called endocytosis, in which the cells accumulate clathrin-coated vesicles. In the experiments, the protein was found to bind to a specific protein that is responsible for the formation of pore-like pits on the outer surface of cells. Further experiments showed that a gene called Oculo-Cerebro-Renal Syndrome of Lowe ( Lowe ) is present in these cells and that it plays an important role in forming the protective coat that protects the membrane from damage. It was also found that this gene also binds to another protein, a phosphoinositidylinositase, that also acts as an adaptor for other protein complexes. Thus, if the gene is missing from the patient’s cells it may be important to find out more about the role of this enzyme.
Colorectal cancer is one of the most common types of cancer in the body. It is caused by mutations in a gene that encodes a protein called β-catenin. This protein is essential for the production of a hormone called Wnt, which is produced by a cell called adenomatous polyposis coli ( or APC for short ). However, it is not clear how this signaling is regulated in cancer cells. To find out, Gao et al. studied the activity of two enzymes called FAK and PYK2. The experiments showed that the enzymes that activate the pathway are phosphorylated at a site called GSK3 on serine 33 and 37, respectively. In the absence of these enzymes, the cells are unable to produce the proteins that are needed to make WNT signaling. When the enzyme is switched on or off, its activity is kept low, and it can only be activated when it has been switched off. Further experiments revealed that this activity occurs in cells that lack the Gsk3 enzyme that is responsible for producing the protein. These findings suggest that a new protein that can be used to regulate the activation of this pathway is known to be involved in intestinal tumorigenesis. A next step will be to identify the kinases that play a role in this process.
Navigating our world involves frequent transitions between posture and movement. For example, in quiet standing and locomotion, the brain controls the movement of the head in space by adjusting the amount of force applied to the body. However, it is not clear whether these transitions are continuous or discrete. To investigate this question, Mullick et al. studied the vestibular system in healthy volunteers who had been exposed to electrical stimuli. The experiments show that when a person is sitting or standing upright, their head moves in a way that is consistent with their posture. This means that the muscles in the back of their heads adjust how much force they are exerting on their body to maintain balance. In contrast, when someone is standing or moving in an upright posture, they adjust their balance to allow them to keep their weight between their feet. Mian and Day found that these changes occur before and during the transition between two standing postures. Further experiments showed that this transition requires the activation of muscles engaged in balance control before the person begins to move. These findings suggest that a transition from a quiet stance to a movement-inducing posture is a discrete process, and therefore requires a gradual disengagement of this control policy before it can be implemented into motor planning.
Cyanobacterium elongatus is one of the most abundant cyanobacteria in the world. This bacterium has evolved a circadian clock to regulate the activity of its genes in a way that ensures that they are able to produce energy at any given time. However, it is not clear how this clock works. Now Markson et al. have investigated the mechanisms that control the production of a protein called RpaA, which is responsible for regulating the expression of genes that are essential for photosynthesis. The experiments show that the protein is defective in regulating gene expression at night, but it can be repaired in light and dark conditions. In contrast, the gene that is normally expressed at the same time during the day has a defect that prevents it from producing carbon reserves during periods of darkness. These defects are caused by the lack of an external source of carbon for the transcription factor that controls gene activity during light/dark cycles. Further work is now needed to find out how the RPAA- protein works in this way.
Transition metals, such as copper, zinc and cobalt, are essential for many processes in all organisms. They are also highly toxic to humans and other animals, and can cause neurological diseases and neurological disease. Heavy-metal transporting P-type ( PIB ) ATPases are crucial for homeostasis, conferring cellular detoxification and redistribution through transport of these ions across cellular membranes. However, it remains unclear how these transport proteins work. To address this question, Zielazinski et al. used a technique called the ‘Baginski assay’ to study the structure of a group of ATPase proteins. The experiments revealed that the proteins are made up of four core states, each containing a specific set of amino acids, which are responsible for transporting the transport metal ions. This revealed several new features, including the ability to transport the transported ions within the cell membrane. Further work is now needed to determine the structures of the other four main proteins, as well as to understand how they work in different environments. In the future, these findings could lead to the development of new drugs to treat diseases caused by heavy metal transport.
Mammals have a wide range of genetic and epigenetic factors that control the expression of many of the genes in their cells. For example, a gene called the X chromosome is expressed either from one of two copies of each given gene, and the other from the maternal X. However, it is not clear how this process is regulated in mammals. To address this question, Zwemer et al. have used a technique called chromatin analysis to identify genes that are subject to monoallelic expression ( MAE ) in human and mouse lymphoblasts. The analysis revealed that a group of genes called BAE genes are expressed in the same way in both male and female cells, but in different cell types. This suggests that the presence of a molecule called active transcription ( H3K36me3 ) is responsible for the production of this molecule. In contrast, the absence of an enzyme called silencing is thought to be the main cause of human diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease ( DAPK1 ) and cancer. Yet, little is known about the molecular features that enable MAEs to occur in other types of cell, including in humans and mice. By studying the DNA sequences of over 20% of known human genes and over half of all known biallelically expressed genes, Meyer, Nag and others have identified a molecular feature that is independent of MPAE. It is also possible to distinguish between the two versions of one gene in one cell type and not another in another. Further work is now needed to determine whether this feature is linked to the development of other diseases.
A protein called AAA+ is an enzyme that is responsible for controlling the activity of many cellular processes. It is made up of a series of structures called coiled-coil middle domains, which are connected to each other to form a ring-like structure called a central pore. This ring is tightly controlled by a group of enzymes called peptidases that attach to the ring to control its activity. These enzymes are also involved in many other cellular activities. One of these proteins, called ClpC, is essential for the growth of bacteria. However, it is not clear how this protein works. To investigate this question, Heuck et al. used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of the cell’s cell membrane. The experiments revealed that the clpc protein is repressed in a “ground” state by two proteins called MecA and Hsp104. In this state, the protein interacts with a protein that forms a protective ring around the middle domain, and then binds to it to release the ATP from the outer ring. As a result, this ring becomes a structure that can be used as a scaffold for other proteins to bind to. Further experiments showed that this scaffolding works in the same way as the rest of an AAA protein, but that it was not as tightly regulated as previously thought. Furthermore, when the cells were exposed to high levels of ATP, they were more likely to die. Together, these findings suggest that a new regulatory mechanism is in place to tightly control the activities of AAA proteins. A new class of antibiotics called acyldepsipeptide ( or ADEP for short ) could be developed to treat these conditions.
Stem cells are a group of cells that are found in many tissues throughout the body. These stem cells have a unique ability to maintain a quiescent undifferentiated state, but how they do so remains poorly understood. Now, Figeac et al. have used genetic and molecular techniques to study the behavior of adult muscle cells, which are known as muscle precursors ( AMPs for short ). The experiments show that the AMP cells communicate with neighboring muscles in a ‘sensing’ way that allows them to respond to the signals sent by the muscles. This signals are then switched on by a protein called dIlp6 to switch on the Insulin pathway on and off in the cells. In fruit fly embryos, the Drosophila cells send out thin filopodia that make contact with nearby muscles to signal the activation of a signaling pathway called the Notch pathway. However, it is not clear how these cells react to these signals, or whether they are able to reactivate their dormant state. To address this question, Bröhl and Tavi used a computer model to follow the activity of the adult stem cell cells in fruit flies. They found that these adult cells move out of their inactive state when they start to proliferate, and when the muscle is damaged or damaged. Moreover, when a muscle starts to grow and mature, these new cells become attached to neighboring cells to form an interconnected network. Further experiments showed that this network is activated via a cascade of signals that switch the insulin pathway ON and OFF in other muscle cell types. Together these findings provide new insights into how the growth of muscles is controlled. Future work will also help us to understand the mechanisms that control the reactivation of these stem-cell populations in more detail.
The brain is made up of many different types of neurons. Some of these neurons fire spontaneously at high rates, while others fire continuously at low rates. This spontaneous firing is essential for the function of the basal ganglia, the brain’s central nervous system, which is responsible for controlling movement and movement. However, it is not clear how the neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata ( SNr ) are able to continuously fire their action potentials. Previous studies have shown that the sodium leak channel ( or NALCN for short ) is the source of this current, but it was not known how it works. Now, Picelli et al. have used a technique called single-cell RNA sequencing to study the activity of individual neurons from a mouse brain region. The experiments revealed that a channel called the nonselective cation channel, or NSCC, is present in many neurons that are spontaneously active. In particular, neurons lacking this channel were less likely to fire than those that were active in other neurons, suggesting that it may be involved in regulating the firing of nerve cells. Further experiments also showed that neurons with a leak-like channel in their neurons also had less activity than neurons without the channel. These findings suggest that this leakage channel is important for firing the active neurons and may underlie the severe motor deficits in humans carrying mutations in this gene.
Antibiotics have saved millions of lives since the 20th century, but only 1–15% of the bacterial diversity in the environment is available for cultivation and exploration. This is because the vast majority of bacteria are unculturable, meaning that they can only grow at their own speed without competition for space or nutrients. To overcome this gap, researchers have developed a series of new methods to study the diversity of bacterial communities. One of these methods is called microscale cultivation, in which a small number of microorganisms can be grown in a single cell. However, it is not possible to grow all the bacteria in one cell at the same time, and this is a problem for many species. Now, Mahler et al. have used a technique called droplet cultivation to explore this problem. The method used to cultivate bacteria from single cells in droplets was directly coupled to a high-throughput screening for antimicrobial activity prior to strain isolation. In the process, the cells were isolated from a soil sample, where they were then genetically modified to produce a variety of compounds that could be used as an antibiotic. These experiments show that the method can produce hundreds of thousands of different compounds at once, even if they are only used for a few hours per day. Further experiments showed that these compounds were able to inhibit intact reporter strains that had been exposed to the presence of antimicrobials. More experiments are now needed to understand how this process works.
Tuberculous meningitis ( TBM ) is the most severe form of tuberculosis in the world. It is caused by excessive inflammation, which can lead to the death of hundreds of thousands of people each year. Treatments that reduce inflammation can also reduce the risk of death. However, it is not clear why this happens. One possibility is that inflammation causes too little or too much inflammation. To investigate this, Fava, Schurr et al. used a technique called Bayesian analysis to compare data from two groups of patients in Vietnam and Indonesia. The experiments showed that the survival benefit of anti-inflammatory corticosteroids was most pronounced in patients with a variant of the gene that encodes a protein called leukotriene A4 hydrolase ( LTA4H ). This gene is important for the balance of pro- and anti–inflammatory eicosanoids, and it was found to be important in people who had high levels of this protein in their blood. In both groups, the effect of glucocorticoid therapy was less pronounced than in those who did not have this gene. Further analysis revealed that this effect was only seen in individuals with the high level of inflammation and those with hyper-inflammation. These findings suggest that patients who have a high risk for developing this type of disease are more likely to benefit from the treatment. Yet, these findings are not consistent with previous studies that have shown that people with an elevated level in a gene encoding an enzyme that regulates inflammation have less survival than those without a higher level. Favares, Sánchez-Garcia, van Laarhoven and Schueman also found that these patients had a lower likelihood of dying before the drug was given to them. They also had higher survival rates than patients without the low-level inflammation gene, suggesting that they were less likely than the other patients to die before their treatment had started. Overall, this finding suggests that there is a large range of factors that underlie the difference in survival between the two populations. A future challenge will be to test this hypothesis in more clinical trials.
Growth cones are structures in the brain that guide the movement of axons around the body. The growth cone is located at the tip of the axon, and it is known that it senses and produces forces for the growth cones to move. However, it was not clear how this guidance mechanism works. Now, Kubo et al. have used a technique called force microscopy to reveal that a protein called Shootin1 can detect and produce force for axonal movement in response to signals from the cell’s adhesion molecule L1-CAM. This information is then translated into a signal that instructs the cells to orient themselves in a particular direction. In mice lacking this signal, the neurons grow abnormally in their forebrain commissures, which is thought to be caused by the presence of a receptor that is deleted in colorectal cancer. It is not known how the netrin-1 signaling pathway works, but it has been suggested that this pathway may be regulated by a signaling molecule called Pak1. To investigate this possibility, Kataoka, Toriyama, Sotelo and others genetically engineered mice to produce mutant mice that lacked the gene that encodes the protein. These mice showed abnormal projections of their brains, a phenotype similar to the ones seen in mice with a mutation in gene editing that causes them to lose the ability to distinguish between normal and abnormal shapes. Further experiments showed that the mutant mouse brain cells that lack this gene were unable to detect the signal and generate force. Furthermore, these mice also had abnormal guidance of neurons in addition to abnormal shape. KATAoka et. also found that these mutant animals were able to generate forces that were not produced in normal mice. Overall, this work provides new insights into the role of this protein in guiding the development of neuronal networks and the regeneration of nerve cells.
Hummingbirds, bats, and other birds use their wings to generate a humming sound. The hummingbirds’ flapping wings move through the air at the speed of sound, which helps them to attract mates. However, it is not fully understood how these birds generate their humming songs. To answer this question, Seo et al. studied six freely hovering hummingbird wings in the laboratory. They used a microphone array to measure the sound produced by the wings as they moved through air. This revealed that the hum generated by these wings is driven by an oscillating force called the “wingbeat”. In addition, the wingbeat generates a sound that is similar to an insect's whoosh. These findings suggest that this humming song may also be a signal to predators that are looking for prey. Further research is now needed to understand how the wind and aerodynamic forces that support the flaps of the birds influence how they hum.
The roles of chance, contingency, and necessity in evolution have never been assessed in a single system or on timescales relevant to the evolution of living things. For example, it is not clear how chance and contingency play out in the same system, or how they contribute to evolution. To answer this question, Pu et al. used a technique called ‘continuous evolution’ to reconstruct the evolutionary trajectories of the B-cell lymphoma-2 family of proteins that evolved during the deep past. The experiments showed that the genes that encode proteins in this family were switched on or off when they were introduced into different ancestral environments. In the experiments, the proteins were selected to acquire specific molecular features that would help them to perform specific roles in their environment. This revealed that chance was the primary driver of these changes, but it was not the only factor that influenced how these proteins evolved. Future studies will need to find out whether chance or necessity also played a role in these processes.
The human genome contains the genetic information needed to make a person’s genetic material. This information is then passed on to the next generation, which can then be used to study diseases that affect different populations across the globe. For example, if a gene is inherited from one person, it can be duplicated by another person in the same gene. However, this is not the case for all people, and it is still not clear how genetic variation in Africa is linked to disease. Gurdasani et al. have now used a technique called genome-wide analysis to identify which groups of people share genetic variants with each other in sub-Saharan Africa. The analysis revealed that a large proportion of African populations share a common ancestor with people from outside of their current geographic region, but not all of these groups share an ancestral ancestor. In addition, the analysis also found that some African groups are more likely to share their ancestral ancestry with groups from other parts of Africa, such as the Fulani of Central West Africa and the Yoruba of Niger-Congo. These findings provide new insights into how the African population has evolved over the last 4000 years, as well as how it has changed over that time.
The development of many animals is characterized by rapid cleavages that dramatically decrease cell size, but how the mitotic spindle adapts to changing cell sizes is not well understood. To understand how this happens, Levy et al. used a technique called cytoplasmic extracts from embryos to measure the size differences between the two stages of embryonic development. The experiments show that the cells of a frog called Xenopus laevis, which has a single genetic background, have different sizes of chromosomes compared to those of an egg. However, the exact mechanisms that control the amount of microtubules in the cell are not fully understood, and it was not known whether the spindles of the frog also change their size during development, or if they do. Loughlin, Brugues and Heald have now developed an in vitro system that simulates the differences in size between different stages in embryos. In the experiments, a protein called kinesin-13 kif2a was added to the egg extracts. This protein was then removed from the eggs and the embryo extracts were then grown in a laboratory. These experiments revealed that in stages 3 and stage 8, cells grow to a size of ∼35 to 40 µm, whereas in stage 9, they grew to ∼20 to 30 µms. By contrast, stages 8 and 9 were much smaller in both stages, suggesting that a change in how cells divide is likely to have a major impact on the growth of these cells.
RNA molecules are made up of molecules called messenger RNAs. The RNA molecules that make up a protein are produced by a process called transcription, which is carried out by the enzyme that makes the messenger RNA molecule. However, it is not clear how the transcription process works without the help of proteins. A group of genes called ribonucleotide derivatives ( or riboswitches for short ) are thought to have evolved from the RNA World, but it was not known how they did so. Now, Nelson, Reiss et al. have used a technique called RNA termination assays to investigate how ribonswitch derivatives work in bacteria. These experiments revealed that two RNA derivatives called guanine and phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate ( PRPP ) can bind to each other in a tandem arrangement. In the experiments, the two molecules were found to bind together to form a pair that could be used to control the expression of the genes in the bacterium Firmicutes. Further experiments showed that these two types of RNA can also be found in tandem with one another. This suggests that Riboswitch aptamers could have been able to regulate the production of these molecules without any help from protein regulatory factors. Furthermore, this work provides new insights into how RNA-like molecules work.
Neurons communicate with each other via a network of synapses. Each synapse contains a single vesicle, which is released into the synaptic cleft by a protein called synapsin. This protein is responsible for controlling the number of synaptic connections between neurons in the brain. Synapses are made up of many different types of neurons, and each type of neuron is able to communicate in a coordinated manner. However, it was previously thought that only one neurotransmitter can be released at a time. Now, Nusser et al. have used mouse brain slices to investigate this idea. The experiments show that the amount of neurotransmitters that are released in response to an action potential depends on the size of the active zone. In the experiments, the researchers measured the levels of glutamate concentration at the junctions between the two active zones. They found that when the activity potential was high, glutamate concentrations were higher than in normal conditions. When glutamate levels were low, this increased the likelihood that glutamate would enter the cell. Further experiments showed that a signaling pathway called cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase A ( cAMP ) regulates the release of a small pool of molecules, known as the ‘multivesicular release’ ( MVR ) pathway. These findings suggest that this pathway is important for the reliability of communication between brain regions. Future work will be needed to understand the molecular mechanisms that control this mechanism.
HIV-1 is an infectious virus that infects humans and other animals. The virus is made up of a protein called Gag, which is found on the surface of the host’s plasma membrane. This protein is able to package the genome of an infected virus in a way that makes it easier for it to assemble into a virus. However, it is not clear how this process is carried out. To investigate this question, Kuzembayeva et al. used a minimal system consisting of purified RNAs called giant unilamellar vesicles ( GUVs ) to create a small system that could be used to study the assembly of viruses in the presence of excess viral RNA. In the experiments, the virus was packaged on a membrane that contains a large amount of RNA, and then packaged onto the cell membrane to make a new viral protein. When the GAG proteins were purified, they found that they were more likely to bind to the RNA than when they had been purified. These findings suggest that the ability of Gags to selectively package its genome and its self-assembly on membranes is dependent on how much RNA it has been packaged into the viral genome. Further work is now needed to find out whether this is also the case for other viral proteins.
