Gene expression varies widely between individuals of a population, and regulatory change can underlie phenotypes of evolutionary and biomedical interest. A key question in the field is how DNA sequence variants impact gene expression, with most mechanistic studies to date focused on the effects of genetic change on regulatory regions upstream of protein-coding sequence. By contrast, the role of RNA 3′-end processing in regulatory variation remains largely unknown, owing in part to the challenge of identifyi
The live attenuated simian immunodeficiency virus ( LASIV ) vaccine SIVΔnef is one of the most effective vaccines in inducing protection against wild-type lentiviral challenge, yet little is known about the mechanisms underlying its remarkable protective efficacy. Here, we exploit deep sequencing technology to deconstruct the CD8 T cell response, to identify the regions of immune pressure and viral escape, and to delineate the effect of epitope escape on the evolution. We demonstrate concomitant coevolution between the host immune system and the pathogenic virus, the live-evolved simia immuno-virus ( HIV-1 ) and live virus.
Mucosal infections with Candida albicans belong to the most frequent forms of fungal diseases. Host protection is conferred by cellular immunity; however, the induction of antifungal immunity is not well understood. Using a mouse model of oropharyngeal candidiasis ( OPC ) we show that interleukin-1 receptor signaling is critical for host defense at the onset of infection through its impact on neutrophils at two levels. We demonstrate that both the recruitment of circulating blood leukocytes and the mobiliza are important for the formation of the host immune system and that the activation of blood Leukocyte and Leucocyte-like cells is required to protect against infection.
The Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( GPELF ) delivered more than 1. 9 billion treatments to nearly 600 million individuals via annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) of anti-filarial drugs ( albendazole, ivermectin, diethylcarbamazine ) to all at-risk for 4–6 years. Quantifying the resulting economic benefits of this significant achievement is important not only to justify the resources invested in the programme but also to more fully understand the Programme's overall impact on some of the poorest people in developing countries.
Parkinson’s disease ( PD ) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder. GBA has recently drawn considerable attention because heterozygous mutations in this gene confer a high risk for sporadic PD. In addition, patients with type 1 GD also have an increased life-time risk of developing PD[5, 6]. Recent genetic studies have revealed a strong association between the loss of glucocerebrosidase ( GCase ) enzymatic activity and α-synuclein accumulation in axonal swellings containing autophagosomes. He
Listeria monocytogenes is a facultative intracellular pathogen capable of inducing a robust cell-mediated immune response to sub-lethal infection. The capacity of the bacterium to escape from the phagosome and enter the host cell cytosol is paramount for the induction of long-lived CD8 T cell–mediated protective immunity. Here, we show that the immune system discriminates between pathogens that reside in distinct subcellular locations, and via a MyD88- and IL-10-dependent mechanism, impacts the potency of t
Primary open-angle glaucoma ( POAG ) is a complex inherited disorder with multigenic inheritance. A recent genome-wide association study found a significant genetic association ( rs10483727, odds ratio ( OR ) = 1. 32 ) at the SIX1/SIX6 locus, which is involved in ocular development and has been associated with the morphology of the optic nerve. In this study, we sequenced the coding and regulatory regions in a case-control dataset; we identified both common and rare coding variants, including five rare and 
In the human intestinal pathogen Clostridium difficile, flagella promote adherence to intestinal epithelial cells. Flagellar gene expression also indirectly impacts production of the glucosylating toxins, which are essential to diarrheal disease development in a host. Therefore, factors that regulate the expression of flgB operon will likely impact toxin production in addition to flaglla motility. Here, we report the identification and characterization of an additional cis-acting regulatory element that con
Endosporulation is an ancient bacterial cell differentiation program that culminates with the formation of a highly resistant cell, the endospore. In the model organism Bacillus subtilis, gene expression in both the forespore and in the mother cell is governed by cell type-specific RNA polymerase sigma subunits. The sporulation factors control early stages of development, and are replaced, at later stages, by σG and ΃K, respectively. Starting with a protein present at the spore surface that is required for 
Protein phosphorylation is a common form of post-translational modification frequently used in nature to alter protein activity, for instance by changing the electrostatic properties of the protein or its spatial structure. Many multisite proteins are involved in regulatory processes that can benefit from the presence of bistability, hysteresis, or limit cycles, which require sufficiently nonlinear interactions in addition to the right type of feedback. In this paper we describe a simple mechanistic approac for the first time that is simple to understand and apply in this work to explain the mechanism by which a protein is able to change its activity.
Quorum sensing ( QS ) enables bacterial multicellularity and selective advantage for communicating populations. While genetic “switching” phenomena are a common feature, their mechanistic underpinnings have remained elusive. We employed a combination of experimental work and mathematical models to decipher network connectivity and signal transduction in the aut
Malaria burden remains high in the sub-Saharan region, where helminths are prevalent and where children are often infected with both types of parasites. Although the effect of schistosomiasis on malaria infection is evident, the impact of these co-infections is not clearly elucidated yet and the scarce findings are conflicting. In this study, we conducted a longitudinal survey in order to address this issue in an area where S. haematobium and P. falciparum are the main prevalent species of parasitic infecti
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a potentially lethal disease caused by Leishmania donovani and L. infantum/chagasi. This disease is characterized by persistent infection of the spleen and by immunodeficiency during the chronic stage. The inflammatory response is mainly induced by the transcription factor IRF-5, which is responsible for the activation of several genes encoding key pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-6 and TNF. Here, we investigate the role of inflammation in regulating antigen-specific C ( C ) in the host immune system.
In the current context of high fatality rates associated with American visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ), the appropriate use of prognostic factors to identify patients at higher risk of unfavorable outcomes represents a potential tool for clinical practice. This systematic review brings together information reported in studies conducted in Latin America, on the potential predictors of adverse prognosis ( continued evolution of the initial clinical conditions of patients despite the implementation of treatment,
In the present study, we analyzed a total of 106 isolates collected between 1976 and 2013 fro
Crohn’s disease ( CD ) is a chronic inflammatory condition of diverse etiology. Exposure to foodborne pathogens causing acute gastroenteritis produces a long-term risk of CD well into the post-infectious period but the mechanistic basis for this ongoing relationship to disease onset is unknown. Here, we developed two novel models to study the comorbidity of acute diarrheal disease caused by Salmonella Typhimurium or Citrobacter rodentium in mice colonized with adherent-invasive Escherichia coli ( AIEC ), a rodent-borne pathogen. We developed the first novel model of a mouse-derived infection with the pathogenic bacterium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and the second model was developed for the treatment of the disease.
In flowering plants, the egg and sperm cells are fertilized by one sperm cell each to form the embryo and the surrounding endosperm. The female gametophyte of Arabidopsis originates from a single haploid spore and is flanked by five accessory cells. Both gametic and accessory cell fates are vital for fertilization; however, mechanisms that underlie the formation of accessory versus egg cell fate are unknown. In the present study, we isolated the lachesis ( lis ) mutant which forms supernumerary egg cells, i
The role of footwear in protection against a range of Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) is gaining increasing attention. Better understanding of the behaviors that influence use of shoes will lead to improved ability to measure shoe use and will be important for those implementing footwear programs. Using the PRECEDE-PROCEED model we assessed social, behavioral, environmental, educational and ecological needs influencing whether and when children wear shoes in a rural highland Ethiopian community endemic
The pseudorabies virus ( PRV ) Us9 protein plays a central role in targeting viral capsids and glycoproteins to axons of dissociated sympathetic neurons in the mammalian nervous system. However, the mechanism by which this occurs has not been elucidated. In this report, we determined that the axonal sorting of viral proteins is critical for efficient targeting of structural proteins and to directional spread of the virus from pre-synaptic to post-aptic neurons. After being taken up at th
Genetically identical cells exhibit extensive phenotypic variation, even under constant and benign conditions. This so-called nongenetic heterogeneity has important clinical implications: within tumors and microbial infections, cells show significant differences in growth rate and in susceptibility to drugs or stress. The budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, shows a similar form of growth and stress tolerance. Using genetic and chemical perturbations, combined with high-throughput single-cell assays, we show that yeast cells are genetically identical and show similar phenotypes. We also found that the yeast is able to grow more rapidly and to be more sensitive to stress or drugs.
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ), an alphavirus and member of the Togaviridae family, is capable of causing severe febrile disease in humans. In December of 2013 the Asian Lineage of CHikV spread from the Old World to the Americas, spreading rapidly throughout the New World. Given this new emergence in naïve populations we used deep-sequencing technologies coupled with well-established bioinformatics pipelines to characterize the viral genetic diversity present in infected individuals. We observed a diverse set of viral genomes in individuals infected with this virus.
MTOR signaling is a central pathway that controls cell metabolism, growth, proliferation and survival. Clinically the mTOR pathway is implicated in human diseases including tumor formation, obesity, epilepsy, autism and neurodegeneration. Here, we identify UBTOR, a previously unannotated gene as a functional player in regulating cell growth and m TOR signaling. We first show reduction of Ubtor expression levels in cultured hippocampal neurons and PC12 cells promotes neurite outgrowth. Then we show that the 
Trypanosoma brucei is the causative agent of the fatal human African trypanomiasis ( HAT ) also known as sleeping sickness, and the economically devastating disease Nagana in cattle. The life cycle of this parasite comprises an insect stage ( procyclic stage ) and a mammalian stage. Although protein-protein interactions are highly informative about protein function, a global map of protein interactions and complexes is still lacking for these important human parasites. Here, in-depth bioche
Tuberculosis is commonly considered a chronic lung disease, however, extrapulmonary Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection can occur in any organ. Despite the fact that lymph nodes ( LN ) are among the most common sites of infection, and thoracic LNs are frequently infected in humans, bacterial dynamics and the effect of Mt bacilli on lymph node structure and function are relatively unstudied. Here, we used PET CT imaging to track the bacterial burden of Ln-infected cynomo, a human pathogen that is frequently found in the lungs of patients infected with tuberculosis.
Microsporidia are fungi-related intracellular pathogens that may infect virtually all animals, but are poorly understood. The free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has recently become a model host for studying these organisms, through the identification of its natural microspora pathogen Nematocida parisii. However, it was unclear how widespread and diverse these infections are in the wild. In this study, we describe the isolation and culture of 47 species of the genus C. elegan, and describe and name their species.
Chemokine receptors, a subclass of G protein coupled receptors ( GPCRs ), play essential roles in the human immune system, they are involved in cancer metastasis as well as in HIV-infection. A plethora of studies show that homo- and heterodimers or even higher order oligomers of CXCR4 and CCR5 modulate receptor function. In addition, membrane cholesterol affects the receptor dimerization at atomistic resolution. This work provides a first comprehensive structural overview over the complex interaction networ.
Systemic leishmaniasis has been known to present with prolonged fever, hepatosplenomegaly and wasting. Beside this classical form, a sub-clinical form has also been identified. It is described with either one or two of the above symptoms missing; other findings have been reported instead, such as lymphadenopathy and anemia. In this report, we reveal a third unsuspected form which we are referring to as “atypical”. Patients suspected to be immune-deficient were referred to our immunology specialized laborato
The millions of mutations and polymorphisms that occur in human populations are potential predictors of disease, of our reactions to drugs, and of age-related conditions such as impaired brain and cardiovascular functions. However, predicting the phenotypic consequences and eventual clinical significance of a sequence variant is not an easy task. Computational approaches have found perturbation of conserved amino acids to be a useful criterion for identifying variants likely to cause disease. In order to in
The malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum is the leading cause of fatal malaria and is responsible for the death of over 400, 000 people annually, primarily in sub-Saharan Africa. The host environment changes dramatically in severe malaria, but the extent to which the parasite responds to—or is selected by—this environment remains unclear. Here, we used RNA sequencing ( RNAseq ) to analyse gene expression in 44 parasite isolates that caused severe and uncomplicated malaria in Papuan patients. We found that
There are good reasons for believing that development of an effective preventive vaccine against HIV-1 is going to be a very difficult task. We used adeno-associated virus ( AAV ) vector intramuscularly to deliver anti-SIV monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) in IgG1 form to rhesus monkeys. Persisting levels of delivered mAb as high as 270 μg/ml were achieved. However, host antibody responses to the delivered antibody were observed in 9 of the 12 monkeys and these appeared to limit the concentration of antibody t. This was the first time that a human antibody response was observed to a given antibody in a monkey.
The assumption of linear response of proteins to thermal noise or structural perturbations, such as ligand binding or detachment, is broadly used in the studies of protein dynamics. Conformational motions in proteins are traditionally analyzed in terms of normal modes and experimental data on thermal fluctuations in such macromolecules is also usually interpreted. Here, we have chosen two important protein motors — myosin V and kinesin KIF1A — and performed numerical investigations of their conformational r
Endocytosis encompasses a number of distinct internalization pathways with clathrin-mediated receptors and their bound ligands being the best understood. Caveolins and cavins are crucial components of caveolae, specialized microdomains that also constitute an endocytic route. However, the molecular mechanisms and functional relevance of these interactions are unclear. In this study, we show that specific caveolar proteins are independently acting negative regulators of the CLIC/GEEC pathway. We show for the first time that they are independent acting positive regulators and that these mechanisms are the same as those that are known to be involved in the interaction between the two pathways.
Two-component signaling systems are ubiquitous in bacteria, Archaea and plants and play important roles in sensing and responding to environmental stimuli. To propagate a signaling response the typical system employs a sensory histidine kinase that phosphorylates a Receiver ( REC ) domain on a conserved aspartate residue. Although it is known that some REC domains are missing this Asp residue, it remains unclear as to how many of these divergent REC domain exist, what their functional roles are and how they function.
Oncolytic herpes simplex viruses ( oHSVs ) show efficacy in clinical trials and practice. Most of them gain cancer-specificity from deletions/mutations in genes that counteract the host immune response, and grow selectively in cancer cells defective in anti-viral response. Because of the deletion/mutation, they are frequently attenuated or over-attenuated. In this study, we developed next-generation HER2-retargeted, fully-virulent OHSV in immunocompetent mice. Their safety profile was very high. Both the un
Human adenovirus 5 ( Ad5 ) -based HIV vaccine clinical trials, where excess HIV infections were observed in some vaccine recipients, have highlighted the importance of understanding host responses to vaccine vectors and the HIV susceptibility of vector-specific CD4 T cells in HIV vaccination. Our recent study reported that human HIV infection of target cells induced by vaccination with ALVAC, a canarypox viral vector tested in the Thai trial RV144, is readily susceptible to HIV. Here we further investigated the host response to the virus and HIV-infection of the target T cell in a vaccine-induced infection with a virus that is a vector of a mosquito-borne virus.
Mammalian females transcriptionally silence one of their two X chromosomes within each female somatic cell – a process called X inactivation. The specific X chromosome silenced exhibits considerable diversity among species, yet the underlying evolutionary processes that might account for this observed diversity remain unclear. We present a theoretical population genetic analysis of the evolution of X-linked genes and specifically consider how conditions of dominance, linkage, recombination, and sex-difference might explain the diversity observed across species.
Zinc-finger antiviral protein ( ZAP ) is a host factor that restricts the infection of many viruses mainly through RNA degradation, translation inhibition and innate immune responses. However, so far, only one flavivirus, yellow fever virus, has been reported to be Zap-resistant. In this study, we investigated the anti-ZAP potential of human zAP and found that it was essential for RNA targeting and anti JEV activity. We also identified the 3′-UTR, especially in the region with dumbbell structures and high c, as a major target for the virus. Our study showed that zap could target and inhibit the viral RNA-mediated immune response and that its ability to target the RNA target was important for its target-targeting activity and for JEE activity, which is also important in this region.
Rift Valley fever virus ( RVFV ) is a major human and animal pathogen associated with severe disease including hemorrhagic fever or encephalitis. The MP-12 vaccine is available to researchers through the Special Immunizations Program at the US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases ( USAMRIID ) as part of an on-going clinical trial. To date, there is little detailed data directly comparing the host response to infection with wild-type or vaccine strains of RVV an
Chemotherapeutic resistance in triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) has brought great challenges to the improvement of patient survival. The mechanisms of taxane chemoresistance have not been well investigated. Here, we investigated the role of C-C motif chemokine ligand 20 ( CCL20 ) in regulating the self-renewal and maintenance of cancer stem cells ( BCSCs ) or breast cell stem-like cells through p65 nuclear factor kappa B ( NF-κB ) -mediated activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) p
Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite that can infect virtually all nucleated cells in warm-blooded animals. When a tachyzoite invades a host cell, it invaginates the host plasma membrane to form the parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ) within which it replicates. The PV membrane is a barrier that the parasite must circumvent in order to effectively hijack and acquire essential nutrients. In this study, we report the identification of novel membrane proteins that are essential for effector tran
Papillomaviruses ( PV ) are medically important pathogens especially as specific genotypes carry a high risk of progression to cancer, most commonly of the uterine cervix and oropharynx. Because PVs have limited protein coding capacity in their typically 8 kilobases ( kb ) genome, these viruses do not encode a DNA polymerase and must rely on host DNA replication factors. As a nuclear double stranded DNA plasmid, the PV genome replicative program consists of three stages: initial amplification from a single nucleotide sequence, initial replication from the single nucleus, and the first generation of a genome replication factor. In this study, we describe the replication program for PV.
Brucellosis is considered to be one of the most common zoonoses globally, and Central Asia remains a Brucella hotspot. The World Health Organization classifies the disease as a neglected disease that is rarely in the spotlight for research and mainly affects poor, marginalized people. Urban and peri-urban farming is a common practice in many low-income countries and it increases the incomes of families that are often restrained by limited economic resources. However, there is also a concern that the growing
Chromosome and genome stability are important for normal cell function as instability often correlates with disease and dysfunction of DNA repair mechanisms. The pathogenic fungus Zymoseptoria tritici has as many as eight accessory chromosomes, which are highly unstable during meiosis and mitosis, transcriptionally repressed, show enrichment of repetitive elements, and enrichment with heterochromatic histone methylation marks, e. g., trimethylation of H3 lysine 9 or lYSine 27. We used whole genome sequencin to sequester the entire genome of the fungus in order to understand the relationship between chromosomal stability and pathogenicity. Our results show that the patho-fungal fungus has at least eight additional accessory chromosome chromosomes (8 chromosomes ), all of which have a high degree of instability and transcriptional repression. Furthermore, we found that chromosomes are enriched with histones that are methylated by methyl groups, such as methyl-methylation mark, or by the modification of chromatin marks.
Prompt post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) is essential for preventing the fatal onset of disease in persons exposed to rabies. Unfortunately, life-saving vaccines and biologicals are often neither accessible nor affordable, particularly to the poorest sectors of society who are most at risk and upon whom the largest burden of rabie falls. Increasing accessibility, reducing costs and preventing delays in delivery of Pep should therefore be prioritized. Here, we present a framework for comparing the cost-effec
Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite that replicates in mammalian cells within a parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ) that does not fuse with any host organelles. One mechanism developed by the parasite for nutrient acquisition is the attraction of hosts to the PV. In this study, we examined the exploitation of host lipid droplets ( LD ), ubiquitous fat storage structures in the host cell. We show that host LD is reduced in host cells that are depleted of LD, or impaired in TAG lipolysis or fat, and that the depletion of the LD ( or the loss of TAG lipid ) is associated with the production of a lipid-dwelling structure, a ubiquitous lipid storage structure.
Liver flukes are the causative agents of serious human and livestock infections many of which have been considered neglected tropical diseases in urgent need for research efforts. Triclabendazole is the first choice drug since it is effective in killing juvenile and mature parasites, but resistance is emerging in several countries. This highlights the urgency of finding novel strategies and target molecules for developing innovative drugs to treat fluke infections. Cysteine proteases play essential roles in
The visual system transmits information about fast and slow changes in light intensity through separate neural pathways. We used in vivo imaging to investigate how bipolar cells transmit these signals to the inner retina. Our results show that the volume of the synaptic terminal is an intrinsic property that contributes to different temporal filters. Individuals transmit through multiple terminals varying in size, but smaller terminals generate faster and larger calcium transients to trigger vesicle release. This is the first time we have investigated how a bipolar cell can transmit this information through a single neural pathway.
Understanding the basic mechanisms and pathologies of the brain’s synaptic networks will require advances in our quantitative understanding of structural, molecular, and functional diversity within the vast populations of individual synapses that define those networks. Fluorescence microscopy combines exquisite molecular discrimination capacities with high speed and low cost, while rigorous discrimination between synaptic and non-synaptic fluorescence signals is challenging. In contrast, EM remains t
Zinc is a vital trace element crucial for the proper function of some 3, 000 cellular proteins. Specifically, zinc is essential for key physiological processes including nucleic acid metabolism, regulation of gene expression, signal transduction, cell division, immune- and nervous system functions, wound healing, and apoptosis. Consequently, impairment of zinc homeostasis disrupts key cellular functions resulting in various human pathologies. Mammalian zinc transport proceeds via two transporter families Zn and ZN. In this study, we describe the transport of a single zinc transporter family from one of these families to the other.
Replication fork integrity, which is essential for the maintenance of genome stability, is monitored by checkpoint-mediated phosphorylation events. In yeast, 14-3 proteins are able to bind proteins and were shown to play an undefined role under DNA replication stress. Here, we identify a yeast protein, Exonuclease 1 ( Exo1 ), as an in vivo interaction partner of the protein. We show that 14+3–deficient yeast cells fail to induce Mec1–dependent Exoxynucleotide depletion ( HU ) and accumulate exo-dependent ss, a protein that is known to be involved in the replication of DNA.
The role of plasmacytoid dendritic cells ( pDC ) in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) infection and pathogenesis remains unclear. We have developed a monoclonal antibody that specifically and efficiently depletes human pdc in all lymphoid organs in the humanized mouse model. This antibody is able to significantly inhibit the induction of IFN-I and interferon-stimulated genes ( ISGs ) during acute and chronic phases of HIV infection. Our findings show that the highly pathogenic CCR5/CXCR4-dual tr tr is an important target for the development of anti-HIV therapeutics.
Sulforaphane ( SFN ), a natural product recognized for its health benefits, is produced in cruciferous vegetables after mechanical damage and causes admixing of glucoraphanin with the enzyme myrosinase. It reaches various tissues after consumption where it maintains biological function and carries virus into restricted compartments like the brain and spinal cord. Here we show for the first time that the expression of the transcription factor nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) blocks HIV infection in the human host. We have shown that this expression blocks the infection of HIV-infected individuals by blocking the virus from infecting the host cells.
Geohelminth infections are common in rural western Kenya, but risk factors and effects among pregnant women are not clear. We conducted a community-based cross-sectional survey to assess the prevalence of and to identify the impact on pregnancy, malaria, and birth outcome. Among 390 participants who provided a stool sample and a single fecal sample, 76. 2% were infected with at least one geohelmineth. Infection was associated with the use of an unprotected water source ( adjusted odds ratio [AOR] 1. 8, 95% ). Infection with a mosquito-borne parasite ( AOR 1. 8/95% - 1/8/10 ), a risk factor for pregnancy and malaria is unknown.
Mycolactone is a polyketide-derived macrolide produced by the skin pathogen Mycobacterium ulcerans, with cytotoxic, analgesic and immunomodulatory properties. The latter were recently shown to result from the Sec61-dependent production of pro-inflammatory mediators by immune cells. Here, we investigated whether the neuroinflammation that is associated with chronic pain in vivo can be explained by its beneficial effects on the peripheral nervous system. Sensory neurons, Schwann cells and microglia were isola
Human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ), a lethal disease induced by Tryposoma brucei gambiense, has a range of clinical outcomes in its human host in West Africa: an acute form progressing rapidly to second stage, spontaneous self-cure and individuals able to regulate parasitaemia at very low levels, have all been reported from endemic foci. In order to test if this clinical diversity is influenced by host genetic determinants, the association between candidate gene polymorphisms and the clinical outcome was tested. We found that the genetic variation in the human African form of the disease was associated with the risk of developing a disease that is lethal in humans.
The Singapore Sequencing Indian Project ( SSIP ) aims to perform whole-genome sequencing with a target coverage of 30X as part of Phase 1 of 1, 000 Genomes Project. In this study, we compar
Burkholderia pseudomallei is intrinsically resistant to aminoglycosides and macrolides, mostly due to AmrAB-OprA efflux pump expression. We investigated the molecular mechanisms of resistance exhibited by Thai strains 708a, 2188a and 3799a. qRT-PCR revealed absence of amrB transcripts and greatly reduced levels in these strains. Serial passage on increasing gentamicin concentrations yielded two different mutants that became simultaneously resistant. The resistance of these mutants could not be obtained with the ability to obtain with a drug that could be used to inhibit the growth of this drug.
During eukaryotic development, the induction of a lineage-specific transcription factor typically drives differentiation of multipotent progenitor cells, while repressing that of alternative lineages. This process is often mediated by some extracellular signaling molecules, such as cytokines that can bind to cell surface receptors, leading to activation and/or repression of transcription factors. We explored the early stage of cell differentiation to delineate the interplay between cell-to-cell signaling co
To function over a range of temperatures, poikilotherms must make adaptive adjustments to their physiology. For example, adaptation to cold in Drosophila correlates with changes in the phospholipid composition of cellular membranes, favoring a higher abundance of shorter and/or unsaturated fatty acids to maintain membrane fluidity. The paqr-2 mutant is unable to adapt to growth at 15°C, which is close to the lowest temperature at which this species can be propagated. Here, we used an unbiased forward geneti
Herpes viruses are prevalent and well characterized human pathogens. Despite extensive study, much remains to be learned about the structure of the genome packaging and release machinery in the capsids of these large and complex double-stranded DNA viruses. In tailed bacteriophage, which share a common evolutionary origin with herpesvirus, the viral genome exits from the virus particle through a portal and is transferred into the host cell by a complex apparatus ( i. e. the tail ) located at the portal vert
Parasitic helminths evade, skew and dampen human immune responses through numerous mechanisms. Such effects will likely have consequences for HIV-1 transmission and disease progression. Here we show that soluble egg antigen ( SEA ) from Schistosoma mansoni can potently bind to DC-SIGN, a lectin known to strongly support trans-infection, whilst having no effect on direct infection of CD4+ T-lymphocytes. We further demonstrate that SEA, specifically through kappa-5, is able to modulate HIV infection and cytokine, and that this is likely to result in the development of a new class of anti-HIV drugs that can be used to block the immune response.
Neuronal stimulation causes ∼30% shrinkage of the extracellular space ( ECS ) between neurons and surrounding astrocytes in grey and white matter under experimental conditions. Despite its possible implications for a proper understanding of basic aspects of potassium clearance as well as water transport processes, the phenomenon remains unexplained. Here we present a dynamic model that accounts for current experimental data related to the shrinkaging phenomenon in wild-type and in gene knockout individuals.
Eukaryotic genomes contain significant amounts of transposons and repetitive DNA elements, which, if transcribed, can be detrimental to the organism. Expression of these elements is suppressed by establishment of repressive chromatin modifications. In Arabidopsis thaliana, they are silenced by the siRNA–mediated transcriptional gene silencing pathway, where long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) produced by RNA Polymerase V ( Pol V ) guide ARGONAUTE4 ( AGO4 ) to transcriptionally inactive loci. It is unknown how 
Bacterial genomes typically encode multiple alternative sigma factors that reversibly associate with the RNA polymerase apoenzyme to promote the transcription of specific subsets of genes in response to changing environmental conditions. Herein, we demonstrate that one or more genes within the RpoS regulon are required for the transmission of Lyme disease spirochetes by feeding nymphs. We show that round body formation is rapidly reversible, and in vitro appears to be attributable, in part, to reduced level of lipids in the host.
Stamens, the male reproductive organs of flowering plants, are precisely controlled so that they coincide with the pistil development to determine the fertility. Mutations impairing stamen filament elongation, pollen maturation, or anther dehiscence will result in male sterility. Deficiency in plant hormone gibberellin ( GA ) causes male sterile phenotype due to accumulation of DELLA proteins, and GA triggers GA-response elements ( GARE ) in the promoter of the α–amylase gene in cereals. However, little is 
Dietary restriction ( DR ) extends lifespan in various species and also slows the onset of age-related diseases in rodents. Previous studies from flies and yeast have demonstrated that the target of rapamycin ( TOR ) pathway is essential for longevity phenotypes resulting from DR. TOR is a conserved protein kinase that regulates growth and metabolism in response to nutrients and growth factors. While some of the downstream targets of TOR have been implicated in regulating lifespan, it is still unclear wheth
Transcription factor binding and chromatin modifications underlie progressive, irreversible cell lineage commitments and differentiation. We know little about the transcriptional changes as cells enter transient functional states such as migration. Here we show that when human epidermal keratinocytes either differentiate or migrate they form complements of typical enhancers and super-enhancers that are unique for each cell type. Unique super enhancer for different cellular states link 
Endogenous retroviruses ( ERVs ) are remnants of ancient retroviral infections of the host germline transmitted vertically from generation to generation. It is hypothesized that some ERV are used by the hosts as restriction factors to block the infection of related exogenous pathogens. However, data suggesting that these mechanisms have influenced the coevolution of endogenous and/or ex endogenous retroviuses and their hosts have been more difficult to obtain. Sheep are an interesting model system to study in Sheep, a system that can be used for the study of eukaryotic disease.
Schistosomiasis is a snail-borne parasitic disease of great concern worldwide, occurring mainly in Africa, Asia, and to a lesser degree in South America and the Middle East. In non-endemic areas, there are a growing number of people potentially infected, given the increasing numbers of immigrants, foreign workers, travelers. Recently, the emergence of urogenital and intestinal infections has been reported in a previously uninfected area in Corsica ( France ), with more than 120 confirmed cases among local p
Machine learning has recently been used for estimation of potential energy surfaces to speed up molecular dynamics simulations of small systems. We demonstrate that this approach is feasible for significantly larger, structurally complex molecules, taking the natural product Archazolid A, a potent inhibitor of vacuolar-type ATPase, from the myxobacterium Archangium gephyra as an example. Our model estimates energies of new conformations by exploiting information from previous calculations via Gaussian proce, and we show that our model is possible for much larger molecules with a more complex structure.
Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) is a zoonotic infection that has repeatedly passed from infected apes to hunters, leading to multiple epidemics and 360 human deaths ( 463 cases ) in Gabon and the Republic of Congo ( RoC ) alone since 1994. Ebolavirus vaccines have been proposed as an intervention to protect apes, but their effectiveness would be improved if we could diagnostically confirm EBOV infection as the cause of die-offs, establish the geographical distribution, identify immunologically naïve populations. We could also test for the distribution of the human population in the region, and identify the geographic distribution.
Type III effectors are virulence factors of Gram-negative bacterial pathogens delivered directly into host cells by the type III secretion nanomachine where they manipulate host cell processes such as the innate immunity and gene expression. Here, we show that the novel effector XopL from the model plant pathogen Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria exhibits E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in vitro and in planta, induces plant cell death and subverts plant immunity. This suggests that during co-evolution wit
The progressive nature of immune dysfunction in HIV infected individuals has implied that early treatment could play a critical role in reducing immune defects and in preserving T and B cell memory responses against HIV infection. Despite the fact that antiretroviral treatment ( ART ) has been pivotal to reducing the viral burden in persons infected with HIV, the concurrent decline in the HIV-specific memory response poses a great risk, as treatment interruption can lead to a loss in control of viremia.
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease afflicting ~200 million people worldwide, and current therapy depends on a single drug ( praziquantel ) which exhibits several non-optimal features. These shortcomings underpin the need for next generation anthelmintics, but the process of validating physiologically relevant targets ( ‘target selection’ ) and pharmacologically profiling them is challenging. Remarkably, even though over a quarter of current human therapeutics target rhodopsin-like G protein cou
The basic body structure of the metazoan body is achieved during gastrulation by the establishment of germ layers. Adhesion differences between ectoderm, mesodermal cells, and endodserm cells could in principle be sufficient to maintain germ layer integrity and prevent intermixing. However, in organisms as diverse as fly, fish, or amphibian, the boundary between these two tissues not only keeps these layers separated, but also serves as substratum for the migration of these cells. The boundary must be compa
Autism Spectrum Disorder ( ASD ) encompasses a large group of early-onset neurological diseases characterized by difficulties with social communication/interaction and expression of restricted repetitive behaviors and interests. This lack of biological knowledge restricts diagnoses to be made based on behavioral observations and psychometric tools. However, physiological measurements should support these behavioral diagnoses in the future in order to enable earlier and more accurate diagnoses. Stepping towa
Leishmaniasis is a group of neglected tropical diseases that are caused by parasites of the genus Leishmania. The disease occurs in human in two different clinical forms: cutaneous ( CL ) and visceral ( VL ). In Brazil, the number of CL cases has dropped from 6, 335 in 1984 to 30, 030 in 1996. From 1990 to 2007 some 560, 000 new cases were reported, primarily CL. However, after 2005, CL incidence dropped and remained stable. We used Bayesian geostatistical models fitted on readily available incidence data to model the incidence in Brazil and to estimate the extent to which the disease has changed over the past decades.
As dengue spreads to new geographical regions and the force of infection changes in existing endemic areas, a greater breadth of clinical presentations is being recognised. Clinical experience suggests that adults manifest a pattern of complications different from those observed in children, but few reports have described the age-related spectrum of disease in contemporaneous groups of patients recruited at the same geographical location. In this report we compared clinical and laboratory features, manageme
In contrast to HIV infection in humans and SIV in macaques, infection of natural hosts including sooty mangabeys ( SM ) is non-pathogenic despite robust virus replication. We identified a novel SM CCR5 allele containing a two base pair deletion ( Δ2 ) encoding a truncated molecule that is not expressed on the cell surface and does not support cell entry in vitro. The mutant allele was present at a 26% frequency in a large SM colony, along with 3% for a CXCR6 deletion allele that also abrogates surface expre. This mutant mutation was also present in the large colony and was found to be associated with the presence of a single base-derectored protein ( CIR6 ), a protein that has been shown to not be expressed in vivo.
MeF2 is a family of transcriptional regulators involved in the control of pleiotropic responses during development and adult life. In vertebrates four members of the family are characterized by the presence of a highly conserved N-terminal MADS/MEFs2 domain. Among these genes, MEF1 plays a pivotal role and their activity is subjected to tight cellular and environmental controls. Dysfunctions in ME F2 characterize several pathological conditions, including cognitive disorders, cardiac hypertrophy and cancer.
Hydrophobins represent an important group of proteins from both a biological and nanotechnological standpoint. They are the means through which filamentous fungi affect their environment to promote growth, and their properties at interfaces have resulted in numerous applications. In our study we have combined protein docking, molecular dynamics simulation and electron cryo-microscopy to gain atomistic level insight into the surface structure of films composed of two class II proteins, HFBI and H FBII produc. Our study is the first to combine protein-docking and microscopy in a study of a class-II protein family of three class I proteins.
Aminoacyl tRNA synthetases are central enzymes required for protein synthesis. These enzymes are the known drug targets in bacteria and fungi. Here, we for the first time report the functional characterization of the enzyme activity of Leishmania donovani ThrRS ( LdThrRS ) a protozoan parasite, the primary causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis. We also studied the inhibition profile of genetically modified parasites by gene replacement strategy in the promastigote stage of parasites. Our study provides
Viral infection of mammalian cells triggers the innate immune response through non-self recognition of viral pathogen associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) in viral nucleic acid. Accurate PAMP discrimination is essential to avoid self recognition that can generate autoimmunity, and therefore should be facilitated by the presence of multiple motifs in a viral RNA motif. Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) RNA is recognized as nonself by RIG-I through the use of a 5′-triphosphate motif on the viral genome in associat
Eosinophilia is a hallmark of the host immune response to parasitic worms. It has become increasingly clear that the functions of these cells extend beyond host defense and allergy to metabolism and tissue regeneration. These influences have strong potential to be relevant in worm infections in which eosinsophils are prominent and parasites rely on the parasite for nutrients to support growth or reproduction. The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism underlying the observation that Eosinella sp
Genome-wide replication timing studies have suggested that mammalian chromosomes consist of megabase-scale domains of coordinated origin firing separated by large originless transition regions. However, in differentiated cells or in cancer cells, most if not all TTRs replicate significantly faster than predicted by unidirectional progression of a single fork. We propose an alternative domino model for origin activation in which replication forks progressing from early origins stimulate initiation in nearby regions of nearby origin.
The ability to recognize objects in spite of changes in the environment is doubtlessly an advantage in everyday life. However, our brain usually performs this task with such astonishing ease that we are seldom aware of the complexity this recognition problem comprises. Inverting this reasoning, a sensory system that adapts to its sensory input in order to extract slowly varying aspects may succeed in learning invariant representations. Nervous system. Feature detection is the ability of extract biologically
Understanding intrinsic and acquired resistance is crucial to overcoming cancer chemotherapy failure. While it is well-established that intratumor, subclonal genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity significantly contribute to resistance, it remains not fully understood how tumor sub-clones interact with each other to withstand therapy pressure. Here, we report a previously unrecognized behavior in heterogeneous tumors: cooperative adaptation to therapy ( CAT ) in which cancer cells induce co-resistant phenoty
Rickettsioses are endemic in sub-Sahara Africa. Burden of disease, risk factors and transmission are hitherto sparsely described. From the EMINI ( Evaluating and Monitoring the Impact of New Interventions ) population cohort, we randomly selected 1, 228 persons above the age of 5 years from the nine participating communities in Mbeya region, Southwestern Tanzania, stratified by age, altitude of residence and ownership of domestic mammals, to conduct a cross-sectional seroprevalence study in. Serology ( indi
Fatty acids are the key structural components of phospholipids and triglycerides, and thereby affect nearly every facet of eukaryotic physiology. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is a valuable model for studying the roles of fatty acids in metazoan biology. Because worms normally eat bacteria for food, their evolution has been shaped by interactions with both pathogenic and nonpathogenic microorganisms. In this study, we identify two stearoyl-coenzyme A ( CoA ) desaturases that synthesize oleate as a subdeletion of a lipid that is essential for the ability of the worms to digest and metabolize food.
Multiple drug resistance ( MDR ) stems from the fact that drug design has been largely based on limited chemical scaffolds leaving an opportunity for pathogens to circumvent antibiotic action mechanisms. Recently, community-acquired methicillin-resistant S. aureus ( MRSA ) infections have emerged and are commonly responsible for skin and soft-tissue infections that may rapidly evolve in severe and life-threatening infections. The pathogen C. difficile has also dramatically increased the hospital-associated infections caused by the bacterial infection of the skin, soft tissue, and skin-and-soft tissue infections, which may be life threatening and potentially fatal.
Neurons in the primate hippocampus are the quintessential signature of hippocampal neural activity in rodents and code the animal’s position in an environment in which spatial information is principally derived from visual input. In this framework, we jointly examined navigation behavior as macaque monkeys searched a virtual reality maze for a reward. Cells sensitive to place also responded to one or more variables like head direction, point of gaze, or task context. Many cells fired at the sight ( and in a
During vertebrate development, the central nervous system arises from a precursor tissue called neural plate, which is patterned along the anterior-posterior axis into four regions. This patterning is determined by a well-defined and locally restricted expression of genes, and by the action of short and long range signaling centers, also called secondary organizers. The development of mid- and hindbrain, for example, is controlled by an isthmic organizer ( IsO ) located at the boundary between the prospecti
Theileria annulata transforms infected host cells, inducing uncontrolled proliferation and clonal expansion of the parasitized cell population. This process involves the recruitment and stable association of de novo synthesized astral and central spindle MTs with the parasite, which develops into the transforming schizont. The latter does not egress to invade and transform other cells and, during mitosis and cytokinesis, engages the host cell microtubular network to secure its distribution betw
DNA replication is a major source of nuclear DNA damage under normal mitotic growth conditions, i. e. in the absence of drugs or irradiation. Replication of telomeres, the ends of eukaryotic chromosomes, involves the enzyme telomerase. In budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, broken replication forks result in DNA breaks that are normally repaired via homologous recombination or break induced replication ( BIR ). However, in cells with persistent DNA replication, constitutive activation of the DNA repair 
Onchocerciasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by the filarial nematode Onchococerca volvulus ( Ov ). Previous studies from many different laboratories have identified a large number of potential Ov antigens that might be useful for early detection of recrudescent infections in areas under control and for mapping new areas of transmission of Ov infection. We investigated whether luciferase immunoprecipitation systems ( LIPS ) may be used as a more rapid, specific, and standardized diagnostic assay fo
Iron deficiency is one of the most common nutritional deficiencies affecting women of reproductive age and children. The increased demand for iron in these groups is often exacerbated by limited intake of heme iron and hookworm infection with associated gastrointestinal blood loss. Maternal iron deficiency anemia is associated with intra-uterine growth retardation, low birth weight, preterm birth, increased risk of maternal and infant mortality. There are also major benefits for women to be iron sufficient.
Herpesviruses are widespread viruses that establish lifelong persistent infections in their host, even in the face of virus-specific immunity. To allow lifelong persistence and virus production in spite of primed immunity, herpesvirus exploit immune evasion strategies. These include a reduction in viral antigen expression during latency and a number of escape mechanisms.
Chlamydia trachomatis is the most frequently reported sexually transmitted disease in the United States and the leading cause of preventable blindness worldwide. Chlamydial pathogenesis is partially mediated by the translocation of secreted effectors at the time of bacterium-host-cell contact. Recent studies have shown that the type III secretion effector Tarp initiates filament formation via a specific mechanism. This mechanism is distinct from known eukaryotic actsin nucleators. In this study, we 
Schistosomiasis japonica is a zoonosis with a number of mammalian species acting as reservoir hosts, including water buffaloes which can contribute up to 75% to human transmission in the People's Republic of China. Determining the prevalence and intensity of SchistoJaponicum eggs in mammalian hosts is important for calculating transmission rates and determining environmental contamination. A new procedure, the formalin–ethyl acetate sedimentation-digestion ( FEA–SD ) technique, is described that is an effec
Obstructive Osteogenesis Imperfecta ( OI ) is caused by mutations in the genes encoding cartilage associated protein ( CRTAP ) and prolyl 3-hydroxylase 1 ( P3H1 ). These proteins, together with cyclophilin B ( encoded by PPIB ) form a complex that stabilizes a single proline residue on the α1 ( I ) chain and has cis/trans isomerase activity essential for proper collagen folding. Recent data suggest that the post-translational modification of Pro986 is not required for the structural stability of collagen; 
Transposable elements ( TEs ) are the ‘ultimate parasite’. They are genetically simple, with autonomous elements consisting of as little as one protein coding gene, but remarkably successful, comprising much of the bulk of large eukaryotic genomes. The best-studied example of a horizontally transferred element is the P-element, which was acquired by Drosophila mela
Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus are two major mosquito species responsible for the transmission of mosquito-borne diseases in the wild. Previous reports from other insects indicated rhodamine B, a thiol-reactive fluorescent dye administered via sugar-feeding can be used to stain the body tissue and seminal fluid of insects. Here, we report on the adaptation of this technique to allow for rapid assessment of competitiveness ( mating success ) during field releases. Marking was achieved by feeding males o
Bacterial superantigens, a diverse family of toxins, induce an inflammatory cytokine storm that can lead to lethal shock. CD28 is a homodimer expressed on T cells that functions as the principal costimulatory ligand in the immune response through an interaction with its B7 coligands, yet we show here that to elicit a lethal response, superants must bind directly into the dimer interface of CD27. Preventing access of the Superantigen to CD29 suffices to block its lethality. Mice were protected from lethal su
Embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) present a fast cell cycle with a short G1 phase. This is due to the lack of expression of cells cycle inhibitors, which ultimately determines naïve pluripotency by holding back differentiation. The canonical Wnt/β-catenin pathway controls stem cell proliferation via Tcf/Lef factors. However, if the activity of the transcriptional machinery controls the proliferation and potency of mESCs remains unknown. Here we show that the activation of a known mitogenic pathway in somatic eukaryotes is controlled by a well-studied mitogen pathway. We have shown that a previously uncharacterized mitogenesis pathway is activated in the absence of an expression inhibitor.
Dengue is the most important arthropod-borne emerging viral disease in tropical countries due to its high morbidity and risk of mortality. Dengue virus ( DENV ) is a single-stranded RNA virus that causes a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from asymptomatic to severe clinical features, characterized by hemorrhagic manifestations and a shock syndrome. Plasmacytoid dendritic cells ( pDCs ) are innate immune cells and in response to virus exposure secrete IFN-α and express membrane TRAIL ( mTRA ), a membrane-trail-like protein that is expressed in the membrane of the host cell. PDC-mediated immune responses are activated by the virus and are required for the development of a protective immune response.
The immune response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection is complex and complex. Experimental evidence has revealed that tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) plays a major role in host defense against the tubercle bacillus in both the active and latent phases of infection. The present study takes a computational approach toward characterizing the role of tNF in protection against TB. We extend our previous mathematical models to investigate the roles and production of soluble and transmembrane tmTNF and a soluble p. Our previous computational models are extended and extend their previous theoretical models in the context of tuberculosis.
Retrocopies ( pseudo ) genes are gene copies that originate through the process of reverse transcription of mRNAs and their subsequent insertion into the genome. This process, called retroposition, is usually mediated by enzymes provided by retrotransposable elements and creates intronless copies of existing genes. Due to the lack of promoter sequence of their parental genes, retrogenes were long assumed to be nonfunctional and simply “junk DNA”. However, multiple findings challenged that view and a few mec
Neurocysticercosis ( NCC ), infection of the central nervous system by the parasitic helminth Taenia solium cysticerci, is a pleomorphic disease. Inflammation is the major cause of disease but is variably present. One factor modulating the inflammatory responses may be the location and characteristics of vessels in the parenchyma and meninges ( corticomeningeal ). This study used a naturally infected pig as disease-based model to quantify and compare the inflammation response following cystidal treatment to the control of inflammation. In this study, we used the naturally-infected pig, a natural model of infection, as a disease based model. We found that the response to treatment was similar to that of a normal pig.
Yaws, caused by Treponema pallidum ssp. pertenue, is reportedly endemic in Ghana. Mass distribution of azithromycin at a lower target dose was previously undertaken in two regions of Ghana for the control of trachoma. Ongoing reporting of yaws raises the possibility that resistance may have emerged in other infections, such as Staphylococcus aureus, or that alternative infections may be responsible for some of the reported cases. We conducted a cross-sectional survey of children aged 5–17 years with ulcerat, a condition that can be life-threatening if left untreated, for which treatment is not effective. Yaws has been reported in a number of countries in the world, including Ghana and South Africa, where it is reported to be endemic. In this study, we conducted the first-in-a-nation survey to assess the risk of resistance to the drug in children and young adults.
Current antiretroviral therapy ( ART ) fails to eliminate a small number of cells harboring integrated replication competent viral DNA. This HIV reservoir has represented a major limitation in eradicating HIV. Despite advances in the treatment of HIV infection with ART, elucidating strategies to overcome HIV persistence, including blockade of viral reservoir establishment, maintenance, and expansion, remains a challenge. We evaluated the ability of two FDA-approved Jak inhibitors to block seeding and maint
Baculoviruses are large DNA viruses that infect arthropods, mainly insects from the orders Lepidoptera, Diptera and Hymenopteras. During their replication cycle, they produce two distinct morphological forms, the occlusion-derived virus that is responsible for transmission of the infection between insects and the budded virus, which spreads the disease within one insect host. Insects have a long history of being used as microbial insecticides to control insect pest populations in forestry and agriculture.
Apomixis, or asexual clonal reproduction through seeds, is of immense interest due to its potential application in crop improvement. One key element of apomaxis is apomeiosis, a deregulation of meiosis that results in a mitotic-like division. We isolated and characterised a novel gene that is directly involved in controlling entry into the second meiotic division in the sexual plant Arabidopsis thaliana. By combining a mutation in this gene with two other mutations, one that eliminates recombination and pai
The prioritization of candidate disease-causing genes is a fundamental challenge in the post-genomic era. Current state of the art algorithms exploit a protein-protein interaction network for this task. They are based on the observation that genes causing phenotypically-similar diseases tend to lie close to one another in a PPI network. However, to date, these methods have used a static picture of human PPIs, while diseases impact specific tissues in which the networks may be dramatically different. Here, f
The evolution of insecticide resistance ( IR ) appears to be a near-inevitable consequence of attempting to control insect populations through insecticides and there is considerable interest in designing and optimising strategies to offset its impact. The best known example of the latter was written by the late Chris Curtis and published in 1985. It has been cited nearly 200 times, not just for IR, but for analogous situations of drug resistance in other sexual diploid organisms such as parasitic worms. Thi
Blood-sucking triatomines are hematophagous insects that act as vectors of Chagas disease. Rhodnius neglectus is one of these kissing bugs found, contributing to the transmission of this American trypanosomiasis. Next generation sequencing ( NGS ) is capable of providing much more sequence data in a single run, with a higher resolution than that from the Sanger technique, allowing for deeper analysis of the transcripts. Deep sequencing increases the possibilities of finding new biological molecules with the
We are interested in understanding the genetic mechanisms that underlie organismal responses to their environment, especially in light of human induced environmental change. One application of this technology is to identify genes that are differentially expressed in response to different environmental conditions. However, whether differential expression is predictive of functional importance has yet to be tested. Here we have addressed this expectation by employing Caenorhabditis elegans as a model for the development of a new technology that is able to predict the expression of different genes in the presence of environmental changes.
A critical event in mammalian embryo development is construction of an inner cell mass surrounded by a trophoectoderm ( a shell of cells that later form extra-embryonic structures ). We utilize multi-scale, stochastic modeling to investigate the design principles responsible for robust establishment of these structures. This investigation makes three predictions, each supported by our quantitative imaging. First, cell-cell contact mediated positional information promotes cell plasticity and has a critical r
Antibodies are the primary effector molecules in the humoral immune system, inhibiting pathogenicity of microbes by binding to surface-exposed elements on foreign particles. The germline gene repertoire encodes a finite number of starting structures that must be capable of recognizing a large and diverse array of antigens to which one could be exposed. A lock-and-key model of binding between two rigid proteins, dominated the antibody field for many years. Somatic mutations acquired during affinity maturatio
Locusts exhibit two interconvertible behavioral phases, solitarious and gregarious. Both are attracted to conspecifics and can form large aggregations such as marching hopper bands. Numerous biological experiments at the individual level have shown how crowding biases conversion towards the gremlinarious form. To understand the formation of marching locust hoppers bands, we construct a partial integrodifferential equation model incorporating the interplay between phase change and spatial movement, and in a 
Viral membrane fusion proceeds through a sequence of steps that are driven by triggered conformational changes of viral envelope glycoproteins, so-called fusion proteins. Although high-resolution structural snapshots of these conformations are available, it has been difficult to define intermediate structures of the fusion pathway because of their transient nature. Flaviviruses possess a class II viral fusion protein ( E ) mediating fusion at acidic pH that is converted from a dimer to a trimer with a hairp, a process that results in the transformation of an envelope-gene ( protein ) into a thiner. The protein mediates fusion by converting the protein into an elongated protein that can be used to trim the viral membrane.
The rapid and accelerating loss of biodiversity is the most significant ecological challenge we face today. Current rates of extinction are already estimated to be several orders of magnitude greater than background rates. The main direct human-induced drivers that impact biodiversity now are habitat loss and fragmentation, whereas climate change is likely to become a dominant future driver. As we move towards assembling the complete tree-of-life, there has been increasing emphasis on preserving phylogeneti
Innate immune cells eliminate pathogens by phagocytosis, a process of internalization followed by degradation of the pathogen. Macrophages and neutrophils are the first line of defense against Candida albicans, which is a common cause of human fungal infections. Dectin-1 is the major receptor involved in anti-fungal immunity. In this study, we identify two new interacting proteins of this receptor, Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase ( BTK ) and the guanine nucleotide exchange factor Vav1, that are recruited to macrop
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is a vector-borne disease affecting ruminants and humans in Madagascar. Madagascar experienced two major outbreaks in 2008–2009, with evidence of a large and heterogeneous spread of the disease. The identification of at-risk environments is essential to optimize the available resources. Herein, the objectives of our study were: ( i ) to identify the environmental factors and areas favorable to human infections in Malagasy contexts. Cattle and human seroprevalence rates were positively associated with the prevalence and incidence of rift valley fever in the region of Madagascar, and ( ii ) ( iii ) identified the environment and the climatic conditions that are favorable for human infection in this context.
Prions are self-propagating protein conformations. Transmission of the prion state between non-identical proteins, e. g. between homologous proteins from different species, is frequently inefficient. Here we use a yeast Rnq1/[PIN+]-based experimental system to explore the nature of transmission barriers. We show that one common region is required and generally sufficient for the transmission; ( i ) despite identical sequences of common QN-rich regions, such transmissions are impeded by barriers of different regions of similar sequence; and ( ii ) even in the presence of identical sequence of most common regions ( e ) in spite of a common genomic region ( qN–rich region ), transmission of such regions is generally successful.
A large body of literature exists on the topic of population genetic models. However, it is often difficult to interpret the output of such models due to the complexity of the data. To circumvent this problem, we introduce a novel likelihood-free inference framework by applying deep learning, a powerful modern technique in machine learning. Deep learning makes use of multilayer neural networks to learn a feature-based function from the input ( e. g., hundreds of correlated summary statistics of data ) and to infer a model from this input.
High-risk human papillomavirus ( HR-HPV ) E6/E7 oncoproteins are essential for the development of malignancies of the anogenital tract and oropharynx, with HPV16 being the predominant type. Persistent HPV infection destabilizes the cellular genome which can lead to cancer. Genomic instability is likely the result of numerous interactions of HPV oncogenes with host tumor suppressors and DNA damage repair ( DDR ) proteins. In this study, we show that high risk HPV-associated cancers are characterized by bone 
The Southern Chiapas focus of onchocerciasis in Southern Mexico represents one of the major foci in Latin America. All 559 endemic communities of this focus have undergone semi-annual mass mass treatment with ivermectin since 1998; an additional 113 communities were added to the quarterly treatment regimen in 2009 to achieve a rapid suppression of transmission. The in-depth epidemiologic and entomologic assessments were perfor
Listeria monocytogenes is a Gram-positive facultative intracellular bacterial pathogen that invades mammalian cells and escapes from membrane-bound vacuoles to replicate within the host cell cytosol. Gene products required for bacterial growth and bacterial spread to adjacent cells are regulated by a transcriptional activator known as PrfA. In this study, we provide evidence for the secretion of a small peptide pheromone, pPplA, which enhances the escape of L. monocompromised bacteria from host cells. Mutat
Vibrio cholerae, the causative agent of cholera, is able to colonize host small intestines and combat host-produced reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) during infection. In order to overcome ROS in vivo, we performed a whole-genome transposon sequencing analysis ( Tn-seq ) by comparing gene requirements for colonization using adult mice with and without the antioxidant, N-acetyl cysteine. We found that mutants of the methyl-directed mismatch repair ( MMR ) system, such as MutS, displayed significant colonizatio
M mismatch repair ( MMR ) requires reciprocal exchange of genetic information ( crossing over ) between homologs. Errors in meiotic chromosome segregation are a leading cause of spontaneous miscarriages and birth defects. Yeast Mlh1-Pms1 and its human orthodimer MLH1+PMS2 both exhibit an endonuclease activity that is essential for MMR. In this study, we analyzed in baker’s yeast 60 new mlh3 alleles. Five of these mutations specifically disrupted MMR, whereas one of the mutants specifically disrupt meiosis. We found that the mutations that disrupted the MMR were not specifically associated with the mutation.
Intense use of antibiotics for the treatment of diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria, Staphylococcus aureus or gonorrhea has led to rapidly increasing population levels of drug resistance. This has generally necessitated a switch to new drugs and the discontinuation of older ones, after which resistance often only declines slowly or even persists indefinitely. These long-term effects are usually ascribed to low fitness costs of resistance in absence of the drug. Here we show that structure in the host is a key determinant of how long resistance can persist and persist.
Autism spectrum disorders ( ASDs ) are highly heritable and characterised by deficits in social interaction and communication, as well as restricted and repetitive behaviours. Although a number of highly penetrant ASD gene variants have been identified, there is growing evidence to support a causal role for combinatorial effects arising from the contributions of multiple loci. Here, we use Drosophila as an in vivo system to examine genetic interactions that may contribute to neurological phenotypes like ASD. We show that genetic interaction between multiple genetic variants is likely to play an important role in the development of ASD and other neurological disorders.
Brain-infiltrating CD8+ T cells play a central role in the development of experimental cerebral malaria ( ECM ) during Plasmodium berghei ANKA infection of C57BL/6 mice. However, the mechanisms through which they mediate their pathogenic activity during malaria infection remain poorly understood. Utilizing intravital two-photon microscopy combined with detailed ex vivo flow cytometric analysis, we show that brain cells accumulate within the perivascular spaces of the brains of mice infected with both experi
Tungiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the sand flea Tunga penetrans also known as jigger Flea. Communities living in precarious conditions in tropical and sub tropical countries bear the brunt of the infection. The main objective of this study was to determine the spatial distribution of tungiiasis in Vihiga County in western Kenya. A total of 437 participants, 5 years old and above were clinically examined for the presence of infection after consenting to take part in the study. Diagnosis was made by a panel of health care workers who were able to assess the prevalence of disease in this county.
The development of vascular tissue was a critical innovation in the evolutionary history of plants, providing a mechanism for long-distance transport and structural support that was crucial for their colonisation of land. In order to fulfil these functions, vascular tissues must be appropriately positioned to ensure the continuity of the vascular strands, forming a transport network between distant tissues and organs. The vascular cylinder ( stele ) of Arabidopsis thaliana makes it an ideal system in which 
Animals can adjust to a changing environment by developing alternative behavioral phenotypes that improve their fitness; this phenomenon is known as “behavioral plasticity”. Environmental stimuli act directly on the nervous system and induces short-term changes in neural and endocrine activity, thus leading to behavioral alterations at different time scales. However, neuronal signaling pathways mediating the effect of external stimuli on transcriptional changes are largely unknown. Recently, we have demonst
The earliest stages of development in most metazoans are driven by maternally deposited proteins and mRNAs, with widespread transcriptional activation of the zygotic genome occurring hours after fertilization, at a period known as the maternal-to-zygotic transition ( MZT ). In Drosophila melanogaster, ZLD is a zinc-finger transcription factor that binds to a small number of genes that initiate sex determination, patterning, and other early developmental processes; and Zelda ( zLD ) plays a key role in their early development. Zelda is an important gene that is involved in the development of Zelda and in Zelda-mediated gene regulation.
Circadian clocks are endogenous oscillators conserved in nearly all living organisms that drive ∼24 hour cycles in physiology and behavior. In mammals, the circadian oscillator is composed of interconnected transcriptional translational negative and positive feedback-loops which generate circadian rhythms at the molecular level. Within this gene-regulatory network, a precise timing of gene expression, protein–protein interactions ( PPIs ) as well as posttranslational modifications is essential for sustainin
Nematode polyprotein allergens ( NPAs ) are an unusual class of lipid-binding proteins found only in nematodes. They are synthesized as large, tandemly repetitive polyproteins that are post-translationally cleaved into multiple copies of small lipid binding proteins with virtually identical fatty acid and retinol ( Vitamin A ) -binding characteristics. In some species the repeating units are diverse in amino acid sequence, but in ascarid and filarial nematinodes, many of them are identical or near-identica
Ciguatera is a type of fish poisoning that occurs throughout the tropics, particularly in vulnerable island communities such as the developing Pacific Island Countries and Territories ( PICTs ). After consuming ciguatoxin-contaminated fish, people experience potentially severe acute neurologic, gastrointestinal, and cardiac symptoms, with some experiencing chronic neurological symptoms lasting weeks to months. Unfortunately, the true extent of illness and its impact on human communities and ecosystem health
Chagas disease is caused by Trypanosoma cruzi. The persistence of the parasite is associated with the disease chronicity and the impairment of cellular immune response. It has been reported that the CD4+CD8+ T cell population expands in the chronic phase of disease. Few studies have focused on this subset of cells, and very little is known about the impact of antiparasitic treatment on the population. Thirty-eight chronic patients ( 20 asymptomatic and 18 symptomatic ) and twelve healthy controls were enrol
Phosphoinositides represent important lipid signals in the plant development and stress response. However, multiple isoforms of the proteins involved in each step of this pathway hamper our understanding of their pivotal roles in plant growth and development. In this study, we isolated and analyzed knockout mutants of multiple AtPLC isoform in Arabidopsis thaliana. Lipidomic profiling showed that the plc2-1 mutant increased levels of its substrates phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate ( PI4P ) and phospholipase. We also found that this mutant was able to increase the level of two phospho-glycophosphoproteins, phosphoprotein 3 ( PLC ), which are important lipids in plants.
Reductionism assumes that causation in the physical world occurs at the micro level, excluding the emergence of macro-level causation. We challenge this reductionist assumption by employing a principled, well-defined measure of intrinsic cause-effect power–integrated information ( Φ ) and showing that, according to this measure, it is possible for a system to “beat” the macro level. Simple systems were evaluated for the value of Ω across different spatial and temporal scales by systematically considering a
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the mitochondrial respiratory chain ( RC ) are primary signals that modulate cellular adaptation to environment, and are also destructive factors that damage cells under the conditions of hypoxia/reoxygenation relevant for various systemic diseases or transplantation. The important role of ROS in cell survival requires detailed investigation of mechanism and determinants of the ROS production. To perform such an investigation we extended our rule-based model of co
Intracellular transport is an essential function in eucaryotic cells, facilitated by motor proteins—proteins converting chemical energy into kinetic energy. Disruptions of the underlying transport mechanisms, often caused by mutations that alter single motor characteristics, are known to cause neurodegenerative diseases. For example, phosphorylation of kinesin motor domain at the serine residue is implicated in Huntington’s disease. In this article we report the effects of mutations of this nature on transp, a key component of cellular transport that is essential for the transport of chemical and energy from the cell to the organelle.
The ability to learn, to adapt one’s own behavior in order to optimize positive and avoid negative feedback, is central to all living beings. Animal learning may therefore be seen more as the process of selecting among, and adapting, potential behavioral policies, rather than mere strengthening of associative links. Calcium influx through high-voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and the CACNA1C gene have been associated with severe learning deficits and psychiatric disorders. Given this, we were interested in how s
Aedes aegypti mosquitoes infected with Wolbachia bacteria are currently being released for arbovirus suppression around the world. Their potential to invade populations and persist will depend on interactions with environmental conditions, particularly as larvae are often exposed to fluctuating and extreme temperatures in the field. In this study, we show for the first time that the wMel and wAlbB infections of Ae. aedesi exhibit incomplete cytoplasmic incompatibility in adults. We also show that these infe
Adenoviruses are important human pathogens that have been developed as vectors for gene therapies and genetic vaccines. Previous studies indicated that human infections with the human virus are self-limiting in immunocompetent hosts with evidence of some persistence in adenoid tissue. We sought to better understand the natural history of infection in various non-human primates and discovered that healthy populations of great apes ( chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, and orangutans ) and macaques shed substanti
The fundamental structural unit of chromatin is the nucleosome, where 146 or 147 base pairs of DNA wrap 1. 75 times around an octameric histone core. To function in cellular processes, DNA must be unwrapped, at least partially. Here, we carried out molecular dynamics simulations with an enhanced sampling method to obtain the free energy profiles for the outer superhelical turn of the DNA. We found a variety of conformational states, indicating that there are many potential paths to the inner superhelicdal t
Lysosomes are acidic intracellular vesicles that provide an optimal physicochemical milieu for enzymatic activities, most of them catabolic, which need to be controlled. Among the catalog of oxidative stress-responsive genes is the Lipocalin Apolipoprotein D ( ApoD ), an extracellular lipid binding protein endowed with antioxidant capacity. Within the nervous system, cell types in the defense frontline, such as astrocytes, secrete ApOD to help neurons cope with the challenge. In this work, we perform a comp
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL, kala-azar ) caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani is endemic in the eastern part of the continent; the Horn of Africa and adjacent countries, namely Sudan, South Sudan, Kenya, Somalia, Uganda, Erithrea and Ethiopia. Here we report on the life cycle parameters and susceptibility of two P. orientalis colonies originating from different sites in Ethiopia: a non-endemic site in Melka Werer ( MW ) and an endemic focus in Addis Zemen ( AZ ). Marked differences in life-cycle parameters were found to be similar between the two sites.
The Chinese government lists advanced schistosomiasis japonica as a leading healthcare priority due to its serious health and economic impacts, yet it has not been included in the estimates of the disease burden. Therefore, the quality of life and disability weight ( DW ) for the advanced cases of disease have to be taken into account. A patient-based quality-of-life evaluation was performed to assess the age-specific DW of patients' self-rated health scores on the visual analogue scale of a questionnaire.
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is caused by the bite of a tsetse fly infected with the protozoa T. b. spp. –i. e., the parasite that causes sleeping sickness. The parasite is transmitted to humans through contact with animals and plants, such as plants and animals, and can cause severe disease. In this study, we examined the use of national census data ( 1999 ) to estimate population vulnerability and disability in Kenya's 7 tsetsse belts to assess the potential of infection in those areas. A multile
Hexamethylene bisacetamide ( HMBA ) is a potent inducer of cell differentiation and HIV production in chronically infected cells. However, its mechanism of action remains poorly defined. In this study, we demonstrate that HMMA activates transiently the PI3K/Akt pathway, which leads to the phosphorylation of HEXIM1 and the subsequent release of active positive transcription elongation factor b ( P-TEFb ) from its transcriptionally inactive complex. As a result, HIV transcription is induced via the activation of this pathway. The effect of the HMABASE on the production of HIV is not well understood.
Leishmaniasis is one of the most important human protozoan parasitic diseases worldwide, with a prevalence of 12 million infections and a further 350 million people living at risk across 98 countries. Mucosal disease is notorious for its poor response to commonly used treatments, such as antimony, and is often complicated by secondary bacterial or fungal infections. Very littl
Enteropathogenic and enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EPEC and EHEC ) are closely-related pathogens that attach tightly to intestinal epithelial cells, efface microvilli, and promote cytoskeletal rearrangements into protrusions called actin pedestals. To trigger pedestal formation, both proteins use a type three secretion system for injecting effector proteins into mammalian host cells. The ability to generate these structures correlates with bacterial colonization in several animal models, but the prec
Extracellular vesicle ( EV ) purification is challenging to standardise due to the diversity of sample composition producing EVs ( cell cultures and body fluids ), the quality of EV preparation and the simplicity of isolation. In contrast, size exclusion chromatography ( SEC ) has been used to successfully purify EVs from other pathogens, highlighting there is not an agreed research community ‘gold standard’ for EV isolation in the absence of a gold standard. This research has highlighted SEC methods with f
Systems biology proceeds through repeated cycles of experiment and modeling. One way to implement this is reverse-engineering, where models are fit to data to infer and analyse regulatory mechanisms. This requires rigorous methods to determine whether model parameters can be properly identified. We use reverse engineering to study post-transcriptional regulation in pattern formation in the early embryo of the vinegar fly Drosophila melanogaster. As a case study, we analyse expression of gap genes Krüppel, k
Rotavirus is a major cause of diarrhea worldwide and exhibits a pronounced small intestinal epithelial cell ( IEC ) tropism. Both human infants and neonatal mice are highly susceptible, whereas adult individuals remain asymptomatic and shed only low numbers of viral particles. Here, we investigated the age-dependent mechanisms of the innate immune response to rotaviruses in an oral mouse infection model. Expression of Toll-like receptor ( Tlr ) 3 was low in the epithelium of suckling mice but strongly incremented by the oral host. We found that the Toll receptor 3 receptor was a low receptor, but was highly incre
Autism Spectrum Disorders ( ASD ) are the most common genetic disorders in the world. Because of the promise of identifying novel ASD genes via rare variants, and the potential downstream implications regarding treatment, an ambitious exome sequencing study has been implemented including nearly 2000 case and control subjects sequenced at two genomic centers. The results indicate that thousands of individuals are required to obtain genome wide significance in this ARRA autism sequencing consortium ( AASC ).
Mycetoma is a chronic infectious granulomatous disease that is frequently reported in tropical and subtropical climates between 30°N and 15°S of the equator. In Sudan it accounts for over 70% of all cases. Many patients are exposed to the causative agent, however only a small number develop infection. Chitin, which is the main component of fungal cell wall, can trigger the human immune system. We investigated the association between 4 of these polymorphisms and the incidence of M. myceteoma in a Sudanese po
Herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) has provided the prototype for viral latency with previously well-defined acute or lytic and latent phases. More recently, the deep quiescence of latency has been questioned with evidence that genes can be transcribed in this state. However, to date the only evidence for these transcripts might be translated has come from immunological studies that show activated T cells persist in the nervous system during latency. Here we use a highly sensitive Cre-marking model to show that the T-cell-mediated T cell persistence is a key feature of the innate immune response to the virus. We also use an immune system-wide sensitivity to detect the presence of activated white blood cells during the latency phase.
Misfolding and aggregation of host proteins are important features of the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson's disease and prion diseases. In all these diseases, the misfolded protein increases in amount by a mechanism involving seeded polymerization. Here using dual-staining immunohistochemistry, we compared spread of PrPSc from three well-known scrapie strains ( 22L, RML and ME7 ) at early preclinical times post-infection using mRNA from thalamus and c. We showed that spread was increased in the amount due to seeded-polymerization and that this increase in size was due in part to seed-molecularization, which is important for the formation of a self-replicating protein.
The 3D organization of chromosomes is crucial for regulating gene expression and cell function. Many experimental and polymer modeling efforts are dedicated to deciphering the mechanistic principles behind chromosome folding. Chromosomes are long and densely packed—topologically constrained—polymers. The main challenges are therefore to develop adequate models and simulation methods to investigate properly the multi spatio-temporal scales of such macromolecules. Here, we propose a generic strategy for self-organizing chromosomes.
Genetic variants in cis-regulatory elements ( CREs, e. g., transcription promoters, enhancers, or insulators ) frequently influence the quantity and spatiotemporal distribution of gene transcription. Recent interest in expression quantitative trait locus ( eQTL ) mapping has paralleled the adoption of genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) for the analysis of complex traits and disease in humans. However, the mechanistic interpretation of these associations is still largely unknown. In this study, we report the first study to address this question.
Despite 30 years of research, a vaccine capable of providing protection against human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) has yet to be described. As headway toward a protective vaccine continues, the practicalities of large-scale vaccine production must be addressed. Beginning in 2009, we learned that multiple broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( bN-mAbs ) recognized glycan-dependent epitopes on the Env gp120. This type of glycosylation substantially alters the mass and net charge of Envs compa
Parasitic nematodes are responsible for devastating illnesses that plague many of the world's poorest populations indigenous to the tropical areas of developing nations. Among these diseases is lymphatic filariasis, a major cause of permanent and long-term disability in people worldwide. Proteins that do not have mammalian counterparts represent targets for therapeutic inhibitor discovery. One promising target is trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase ( T6PP ) from Brugia malayi. We determined the X-ray crystal structure of this molecule and determined that it represents a target for the discovery of therapeutic inhibitors.
Tumours exhibit spatially heterogeneous, unique vascular architectures across individual samples, cell-lines and patients. This inherently disorganised collection of leaky blood vessels contribute significantly to suboptimal treatment efficacy. Preclinical tools are urgently required which incorporate the inherent variability and heterogeneity of tumours to optimise and engineer anti-cancer therapies. In this study, we present a novel computational framework which incorporates whole, realistic tumour sample and patient samples. Our study provides a whole- realistic and realistic cancer sample with a detailed view of the underlying vascular architecture.
HIV is known to spread efficiently both in a cell-free state and from cell to cell, however the relative importance of this mode in natural infection has not yet been resolved. This gap in knowledge poses a conceptual problem for neutralizing antibody based HIV vaccine and entry inhibitor design, as it remains uncertain whether only the dominant transmission mode needs to be targeted with equal efficacy and if so which. Here we present a comprehensive in vitro analysis of antibody activity during cell–cell infection in the context of HIV infection.
Visual attention has many effects on neural responses, producing complex changes in firing rates, as well as modifying the structure and size of receptive fields, both in topological and feature space. Several existing models of attention suggest that these effects arise from selective modulation of neural inputs. Here we propose a simple mechanistic model that explains how a top-down attentional modulation, falling upon the upper areas of the visual hierarchy, can produce all the previously mentioned effec
Larval hematopoiesis is a disease caused by the protozoan parasite Drosophila melanogaster. The larval hemocyte ( blood cell ) homeostasis is controlled by a small group of specialised cells, the posterior signalling centre ( PSC ), which acts in a non–cell-autonomous manner, perhaps via Hh signalling, to maintain JAK/STAT signalling in prohemocytes, thus preserving the multipotent character necessary for these cells to adopt a lamellocyte fate upon parasitisation. In this report, on the basis of a knock ou, we describe the mechanism by which this cell is able to preserve a pluripotent role in the development of the pro-hemocyte-blood-cell defence system.
Genetic recombination is an important process during the evolution of many virus species and occurs particularly frequently amongst begomoviruses in the single stranded DNA virus family, Geminiviridae. As in many other recombining viruses it is apparent that non-random sequences of DNA are disreputable by natural selection. Here we investigate patterns of sequence exchange that occur over 120 day long experimental infections of tomato plants with two different viruses, Tomato yellow leaf curl virus and Toma. We find that the sequence of the DNA of two viruses that recombine with each other is disputable and that this is due to the randomness of their DNA sequences.
Nucleosomes are the basic repeat units of eukaryotic chromatin, forming preferentially on stretches of DNA that – by virtue of their sequence composition – are more amenable to being wrapped around the histone core. Consequently, changes at the sequence level can bring about changes in nucleosome positioning and occupancy, providing a simple example of how genetic changes can locally alter epigenetic states. Nucleomes form the fundamental repeating units, which is used as a model for the study of the role of genetic variation in the structure and positioning of a genome.
Proteins are inherently dynamic entities and exist not as single structures, but as non-uniform distributions of multiple conformer populations. The protein dynamism plays an intricate role in defining the structure, function and evolution of individual proteins. Conformational diversity of proteins should guarantee conformational transitions, which due to its importance, could possibly be associated with evolutionary conserved traits. Normal mode analysis of a coarse-grained model of the protein, ca
Metabolic pathways used by Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) to establish and maintain infections are important for our understanding of pathogenesis and the development of new chemotherapies. To investigate the role of fructose-1, 6-bisphosphate aldolase ( FBA ), we engineered an strain in which the essentiality for growth and persistence was regulated by anhydrotetracycline ( atc ). Depletion of fba resulted in a failure to replicate in both the acute and chronic phases of infection in vivo, and loss of Fba. We engineered a strain that was deficient in growth, persistence, or growth ( in vitro and in the vivo ) in order to maintain infection and to prevent the failure of replication in chronic and acute infections. Loss of this ability led to the inability of the strain to reproduce in either the chronic or acute phase of infections in mice.
Peroxiredoxins ( PRXs ) are ubiquitous enzymes that use a redox active cysteine residue ( peroxidatic Cys ) to reduce a broad spectrum of substrates. In Leishmania and related trypanosomatids, which lack the highly efficient enzymes catalase and selenium-glutathione ( GPX ), members of this family are regarded as key elements of the peroxide-reduction machinery. Here, we investigated the functional relevance of one of such enzymes, the mitochondrial 2-Cys PEROXiredoxin ( mTXNPx ). We found that mtxnpx− para = 4-cys = PEROXIREDOXIREDOKE ( pxnxp−1 ) PERXiredXins are a ubiquitous enzyme that uses a cyst-like residue in the cytoplasm.
The Histoplasma urine antigen ( HUAg ) is the preferred method to diagnose progressive disseminated histoplasmosis ( PDH ) in HIV patients in Mexico. In 2007, the IMMY ALPHA EIA was approved for clinical for on-site use, and therefore useful for regions outside the United States. However, this test is considered inferior to the MVista-HUAG which is only available on referral. Therefore, we aim to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the assay. We conducted a multicenter, prospective, diagnostic test study in order to assess the test’s accuracy and to determine whether it can be used on the referral basis.
Human diarrhea is the third leading cause of infectious deaths worldwide and is responsible for ∼1. 8 million deaths in children under age five each year. Bacteria, protozoa and viruses have all been implicated as causal agents. However, it is estimated that on average up to 40% of diarrhea cases are of unknown etiology, suggesting that unrecognized infectious agents, including viruses, remain to be discovered. To our knowledge, no metagenomic investigation of the viral diversity found in human diarrhea has
Aedes-borne arboviruses are responsible for increasing worldwide morbidity and mortality at an alarming rate. While new technologies are emerging to reduce transmission risk, evidence-based control for the principle vector, Aedes aegypti, is still lacking. Considering this, it remains important to describe how epidemics move through populations in space and time, as well as document those demographics most at risk. In Dominican Republic, the appearance of Zika virus cases that closely followed a large dengu
PARPs have been identified in plants and animals as well as bacteria, fungi and double-stranded DNA viruses. However, little is known about the function of PARPs in response to DNA damage. We have found that, in contrast with animals, Arabidopsis thaliana PAR1 ( At4g02390 ) makes the greatest contribution to plant immune responses, i
In the central nervous system, most synaptic connections are glutamatergic and often referred to as central synapses. Different neurons in the nematode C. elegans have proven extremely valuable in identifying conserved regulators of synapse formation, including motor neurons, HSN neurons and mechanosensory neurons. In this study, we identified several kinases that are likely to be part of a new MAP kinase pathway that suppresses axon termination defects, but not synaptic branch defects. This pathway include
A subset of transcription factors like Gli2 and Oct1 are bipotential — they can activate or repress the same target, in response to changing signals from upstream genes. Some previous studies implied that the sex-determination protein TRA-1 might also be bipOTential; here, we confirm this hypothesis by identifying a co-factor, and use it to explore how the structure of a switch changes during evolution. First, null mutants reveal that C. briggsae TRRAP ( TRansformation/tRanscription domain-Associated Protei ), a transcription factor that activates and represses an upstream gene, has a similar structure to that found in other genes in the genome.
Answering this question promises to shed substantial new light on many complex systems, biological and non-biological. A common and attractive intuition is that dynamical complexity consists in the coexistence of differentiation and integration ( subsets of a system are dynamically distinct ) yet each conscious scene is experienced as a coherent whole ( integration ). This intuition may actually account for ( and not merely correlate with ) fundamental aspects of consciousness. Several measures now exist w
The spread of Rhodesian human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) in Uganda in recent years has increased concerns of a potential overlap with the Gambian form of the disease. Recent research has aimed to increase the evidence base for targeting control measures by focusing on the environmental and climatic factors that control the spatial distribution of human infection. One recent study used simple logistic regression methods to explore the relationship between prevalence and several social and environmental factors. In this study, we found that there is a strong correlation between the presence of Rhodesian and African African Trypanosis in the population of Uganda.
The consensus that complexity begets stability in ecosystems was challenged in the seventies, a result recently extended to ecologically-inspired networks. The approaches assume the existence of a feasible equilibrium, i. e. with positive abundances. However, this key assumption has not been tested. We provide analytical results complemented by simulations which show that equilibrium feasibility vanishes in species-rich systems. Our results suggest that a general understanding of ecosystem dynamics requires a better understanding that it is essential to understand the dynamics of ecosystems.
Coxiella burnetii, the etiological agent of ‘Q fever’, has caused several large scale outbreaks within Europe over recent years, and contributes an ongoing human and livestock health burden in many regions. While there has been increasing attention to Q fever epidemiology in high-income settings, a recent systematic review highlighted significant gaps in our understanding of the prevalence, spatial distribution and risk factors for exposure to the pathogen across Africa. This research aimed to provide a more comprehensive and systematic approach to understanding the spatial and temporal distribution of exposure and the risk factor for the infection.
Schistosomiasis is considered the most important of the human helminthiases in terms of morbidity and mortality, and genetic manipulation of this developmental stage with MLV is feasible. Functional genomic approaches could aid in identifying the role and importance of these newly described genes. Vasa, an adenosine 5′-triphosphate ( ATP ) -dependent DEAD-box RNA helicase, is an archetypal metazoan germ cell specific marker, a prototypic marker of primordial germ cells and the germ line in the Metazoa. Wein
Heart valve disease is a major clinical problem worldwide. Cardiac valve development and homeostasis need to be precisely controlled. The Hippo pathway is an evolutionarily conserved pathway from Drosophila to human which regulates cell proliferation, differentiation, stem cell fate determination and organ size in multiple organs and tissues, while its role in valve formation and morphology maintenance remains unknown. Here we found that VGLL4 is expressed in endothelial and interstitial cells in the valve 
Since the initial description of the genomic patterns expected under models of positive selection acting on standing genetic variation and on multiple beneficial mutations—so-called soft selective sweeps—researchers have sought to identify these patterns in natural population data. Indeed, over the past two years, large-scale data analyses have argued that soft-selective sweeps are pervasive across organisms of very different effective population size and mutation rate—humans, Drosophila, and HIV. Yet, others have ev
Female Aedes aegypti mosquitoes are the principal vector for dengue fever, causing 50–100 million infections per year, transmitted between human and mosquito by blood feeding. Female mosquitoes use a multi-sensory approach to guide a series of behaviors collectively known as host-seeking behavior. Head Peptide-I is a candidate peptide mediating this suppression, but the mechanism by which this mechanism alters mosquito behavior and the receptor through which it signals are unknown. We carried out a cell-bas
Schistosomiasis is the most important water impounding disease and one of the diseases classified by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) as neglected. It is widespread in Nigeria and has been estimated that 240 million people required treatment globally. The aim of this study is to identify the areas with suitable conditions for the transmission of disease on the basis of physical and environmental factors derived from satellite imagery and spatial analysis for Akure North Local Government Area ( LGA ) of.
Streptococcus pneumoniae ( pneumococcal ) meningitis is a common bacterial infection of the brain. The cholesterol-dependent cytolysin pneumolysin represents a key factor in determining the neuropathogenic potential of these bacteria. Here, we demonstrate selective synaptic loss within the superficial layers of frontal neocortex of post-mortem brain samples from individuals with pneumonia. A similar effect was observed only when the bacteria expressed the pore-forming LDL-competent Chromosporin. Exposure of a bacterium to the cholesterol–deficient cholesterol, which is known to be important for the development of pathogenic bacteria, was not observed in the brains of individuals who had been exposed to this bacteria for a long time. In this study we show that the bacterial pathogenesis of this infection is determined by the loss of synaptic losses within a superficial layer of brain tissue. This is the first study to demonstrate the effect of such a loss on the ability of bacteria to cause disease.
Human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) are small, non-enveloped, double stranded DNA viruses associated with major human cancers. As such there is a strong interest in developing new means, such as vaccines and microbicides, to prevent HPV infections. Developing the latter requires a better understanding of the infectious life cycle of HPVs. In this study, we used chemical biology approaches to reveal that cell cycle progression through mitosis is critical for HPV infection. Using infectious wild type HPV16 particl
Penicillium marneffei is the most important thermal dimorphic fungus causing systemic mycosis in China and Southeast Asia. While miRNAs are increasingly recognized for their roles in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in animals and plants, the mode of transmission, and pathogenic mechanisms are largely unknown. Based on the genome sequence, we hypothesize that miRNA-like small RNAs may be expressed in the filamentous fungus. Sequence analysis revealed 24 potential milRNA candidates, includi
In 2013, Zika virus ( ZIKV ) emerged in French Polynesia and spread through the Pacific region between 2013 and 2017. Several potential Aedes mosquitoes may have contributed to the spread of the zika virus in this region. In this study, we evaluated the vector competence of Ae. aegypti, the main arbovirus vector in the region, and aedes polynesiensis, vector of lymphatic filariasis and secondary vector for dengue virus. Our results revealed a low transmission competence for the two populations tested during the 2013-2017 period.
The long non-coding RNA ( lncRNA ) Xist is a master regulator of X-chromosome inactivation in mammalian cells. Modeling the conformation of this RNA depends on thermodynamically stable secondary and higher-order structures that RNAs can form in the context of a cell. We built upon recent advances in RNA secondary structure mapping and modeling to develop Targeted Structure-Seq, which combines chemical probing of RNA structure in cells with target-specific massively parallel sequencing. By enriching for sign, we have developed a novel method for the identification and characterization of the structure of an RNA that can be used as a target for gene expression.
Genome-wide association studies have succeeded in uncovering many common genetic variants underlying complex diseases, raising hope for individualized risk prediction based on genomic profiles. However, it is controversial whether such tests will be useful clinically. Appropriate statistical measures to evaluate the performance of genetic disease prediction models are required. In this study, we develop a novel unifying statistical framework that connects a large variety of predictive indices together. We s
Trypanosoma brucei gambiense ( g-HAT ) is a vector-borne, neglected tropical disease, which puts 70 million people living in sub-Saharan African countries at risk. The card agglutination test ( CATT ) has been the most widely used screening test for trypanomiasis for decades, despite a number of practical limitations that were partially addressed by the introduction of rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ). However, current R DTs are manufactured using native antigens, and are challenging to produce. In this study, we describe the development of a rapid test that can be used to detect the presence of the disease.
Chagas disease, a neglected tropical disease that affects millions of Latin Americans, has been effectively controlled in Guatemala after multiple rounds of indoor residual insecticide spraying ( IRS ). However, only a few foci remain with persistent Triatoma dimidiata infestation. One such area is the municipality of Comapa, Department of Jutiapa in the southeastern region of Guatemala, where control interventions appear less effective. We carried out three cross sectional entomological and serological sur
Citrobacter rodentium is a natural mouse pathogen that causes attaching and effacing ( A/E ) lesions, which are characterised by intimate bacterial adherence to host intestinal epithelial cells, effacement of microvilli, and reorganisation of the host actin cytoskeleton to form pedestal-like extensions of cells beneath the adherent bacteria. We previously reported the complete genome sequence of C. rationium ICC168, where we found that the genome displayed many characteristics of a newly evolved bacterium. In this study, we present a complete transcriptome sequence and a detailed description of an evolutionarily-adapted C. rhodium, a rodent-pathogen.
Stochastic fluctuations in gene expression give rise to distributions of protein levels across cell populations. Despite a mounting number of theoretical models explaining stochasticity in protein expression, we lack a robust, efficient, assumption-free approach for inferring the molecular mechanisms that underlie the shape of the protein distributions. Here we propose a method for determining sets of biochemical rate constants that govern chromatin modification, transcription, translation, and RNA and protomechanism.
Monkeypox virus ( MPXV ) is an orthopoxvirus with a broad-host range capable of infecting many animal species. The global vaccination campaign that eradicated smallpox utilized vaccines that are also efficacious, but require 2 administrations for complete protection. However, the vaccination campaigns ended in Africa in 1980, meaning that a large proportion of the population is currently unprotected against the virus and, barring that, interrupting person-to-person spread. In the present study, a new vaccin
The mRNA cap is the major mRNA decay pathway in many eukaryotes, including trypanosomes. After deadenylation, mRNAs are decapped by the nudix hydrolase DCP2 of the decapping complex and finally degraded by an RNA 5’ exoribonuclease. Here, I show that the parasites use an ApaH-like phosphatase ( ALPH1 ) as their major protein. The protein was recently identified as a novel protein and as involved in mRNA binding. We have recently purified starvation stress granules from trypansomes, a heterogenic group of fl
Pancreatic development involves an elaborate process of morphological events accompanied by a complex pattern of cellular differentiation and lineage selection. These events are mediated in great part by tissue interactions, signaling pathways and directed cascades of gene expression that determine cell fate. Thus, in an effort to design improved protocols, current research efforts aim at elucidating the genetic programs underlying pancreatic endocrine cell lineage determination and/or reprogramming, an app
The initiation of eukaryotic DNA replication is tightly regulated so that it occurs at most once per cell cycle. Preventing re-initiation throughout the genome is particularly challenging because each individual origin must be tightly controlled if a genome contains hundreds to thousands of replication origins. To minimize the probability of de-initiating from so many origins, cells use a battery of regulatory mechanisms that reduce the activity of the replication initiation proteins. Given the global natur
Invasive amebic diseases caused by Entamoeba histolytica are increasing among men who have sex with men ( MSM ) due to oral-anal sexual contact. However, the efficacy of luminal treatment in preventing recurrence, which can arise by relapse or re-infection, has not yet been assessed rigorously. In this study, we retrospectively analyzed 170 HIV-1 infected Japanese patients with IA, together with genomic typing of the cyst form of E. histoebiasis in 14 of these patients, and compared the clinical and epidemiologic characteristics of this disease.
Gambian sleeping sickness ( HAT ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense transmitted by riverine species of tsetse. A global programme aims to eliminate the disease as a public health problem by 2020 and stop transmission by 2030. In the South of Chad, the Mandoul area is the focus of Gambian Sleeping sickness where around 100 cases were still diagnosed and treated annually until 2013. Pre-2014, control of this lethal disease relied solely on case detection and treatment, whi
Strongyloidiasis is caused by the soil-transmitted nematode Strongyloides stercoralis. The parasite is globally distributed in the tropics and occurs in some parts of the sub-tropics, although it has also been reported in more temperate climates, like southern Europe and North America. It has been recently estimated that 370 million people are infected by this parasite; however, this prevalence is most probably underestimated, since the majority of studies are focused on other soil transmitted helminthes.
Vaccination is an effective method to protect against infectious diseases. An important consideration in any vaccine formulation is the inoculum dose, i. e., amount of antigen or live attenuated pathogen that is used. Higher levels generally lead to better stimulation of the immune response but might cause more severe side effects and allow for less population coverage in the presence of vaccine shortages. A combination of mathematical models with experimental data can help determine the impact of a given v
In response to nitrogen deprivation, filaments of the cyanobacterium Anabaena undergo a process of development into a one-dimensional pattern consisting of single micro-oxic cells in which nitrogen fixation takes place-heterocysts, separated by about 10–15 photosynthetic vegetative cells. While neighboring cells can attain different developmental fates, cellular decisions may be driven by tiny differences in the concentrations of morphogens and other molecular species between cells or noise. N
Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is transmitted predominantly by Culex mosquitoes, but several other genera may participate in certain circumstances including humans, birds, pigs and other mammals by bite. Mosquitoes are responsible for the transmission cycle in nature by several species of mosquito vectors and vertebrate hosts. In this study, we performed a serological survey in pigs in China and compared the replication kinetics of seven recently-isolated isolates including three GI strains and four GI ( GI strain and GI ) strains. We performed the study in the pigs of China in order to better understand the viral replication and host-pathogen interactions in this population.
Candida albicans is a fungal commensal of the human gastrointestinal tract with the potential to cause both superficial mucosal and life-threatening invasive infections. As a result, it has been the subject of intensive study and, accordingly, this work has informed our understanding of its pathobiology as well as fundamental paradigms of infection biology. One genetic approach that has not been widely utilized in the study of this important pathogen is genetic interaction or epistasis analysis. To understa
Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by several species of digenetic protozoan parasites belonging to genus Leishmania. Asparagine synthetase ( AS ) is responsible for the conversion of aspartate into Asn in an ATP-dependent manner, using ammonia or glutamine as a nitrogen source. There are two structurally distinct types of AS: the strictly ammonia dependent, type A, and the type B, which preferably uses glutamate. Notably, AS-A was claimed to be essential for parasites survival. Appealingl
Toxocariasis is one of the most prevalent helminthiasis infections worldwide. The majority of infections remain undiagnosed in tropical settings where seroprevalence ranges from 35 to 42% in rural areas and from 2 to 5%, in urban areas. Infection could also occur as accidental ingestion of embryonated eggs from contaminated water, vegetables, fruit or organs from paratenic hosts ( cows, sheeps or chickens ). A systematic review was conducted without date and language restriction in the following electronic 
The DNA damage response ( DDR ) plays an essential role in determining cell fate after DNA double strand breaks ( DSBs ) by arresting the cell cycle to allow evaluation of DNA integrity and signaling for repair or apoptosis. The DDR maintains genomic stability and is an indispensable defense mechanism against cell death or tumor development. MiRNAs have recently emerged as endogenous gene regulators, targeting the protein components of the DDR pathways. We describe a new ATM–mediated DDR pathway involving mRNA as a novel target for MiRNAAs, and we describe an ATM-mediated ATM pathway that targets the ATM components.
When it comes to interpreting others' behaviour, we almost irrepressibly engage in the attribution of mental states ( beliefs, emotions… ). Such "mentalizing" can become very sophisticated, eventually endowing us with highly adaptive skills such as convincing, teaching or deceiving. Here we take inspiration from recent works in behavioural economics and experimental psychology, which investigate sophisticated mentalizing processes. We ask whether such sophisticated recursive beliefs subtend learning in term, and if such cognitiveizing can be very adaptive.
Biological networks provide additional information for the analysis of human diseases, beyond the traditional analysis that focuses on single variables. Gaussian graphical model ( GGM ), a probability model that characterizes the conditional dependence structure of a set of random variables by a graph, has wide applications in the study of biological networks, such as inferring interaction or comparing differential networks. However, existing approaches are either not statistically rigorous or are inefficie
Striatal medium spiny neurons ( MSNs ) inhibit each other through a local network of collaterals, receive excitatory projections from the cerebral cortex and are the only cells which project outside the striatum. Because of their inhibitory structure the MSN network is often thought to act selectively, transmitting the most active cortical inputs downstream in the BG while suppressing others. However studies of neural response to sensory stimuli and behavioural task events throughout the brain have found th
Polarized growth is maintained by both polarized exocytosis, which transports membrane components to specific locations on the cell cortex, and endocytic internalization. Despite functional links between these two transport pathways, they are generally considered to be separate events. Using live cell imaging, in vivo and in vitro protein binding assays, as well as pyrene-actin polymerization assay, we show that the yeast Rab GTPase Sec4p is a well-established regulator of polarization with cortical actin p. In vitro and live-cell imaging experiments, both in the presence and absence of proteins binding to the ribonucleic acid (RNAi ) polymerized protein (PPCA ) and pyraspid polymerizing assay (QPMA ), our study shows that a yeast protein-binding assay is well established to regulate the expression of this protein.
Acetaminophen ( APAP ) -induced liver injury in mice is a model for drug-induced hepatic necrosis in humans. A precondition for improved strategies to disrupt and/or reverse the damage is the zonation hypothesis: a configuration of NZ-Mechanism ( as distinct from being described mathematically ) that is instantiated within a virtual mouse. This software analog is engineered to be quantitatively and qualitatively biomimetic across all anatomical, hepatocellular, and cell biology features currently believed r
T. cruzi is the causative agent of Chagas or American Trypanosomiasis, a disease that affects around 8–10 million people in Latin America. In non-endemic areas, and in the absence of blood transfusion risks, the infection is increasing its epidemiological importance, because of the migration of women to North America and Europe. The mother-to-child parasite transmission rate in different endemic areas is variable: 10% in Paraguay, 3. 4–8. 6%, 2. 3% and 7–11%. Sometimes these vertical transmission rates are 
We propose a biophysical model of Escherichia coli that predicts growth rate and cell composition from an effective, coarse-grained representation of its genome. We assume that E. coli is in a state of balanced exponential steady-state growth, growing in an temporally and spatially constant environment, rich in resources. In a series of experiments, we have measured the growth and rRNA-to-protein ratio for seven strains engineered by the Squires group. These experiments show that growth rates markedly increase over time.
The plant hormone abscisic acid ( ABA ) is induced by abiotic stresses and plays essential roles in plant responses and adaptation to those stresses, in addition to regulating several developmental processes, including seed development and maturation, dormancy and germination, seedling growth, and floral transition. RADIALIS-LIKE SANT/MYB 1 ( RSM1 ) belongs to a MYB-related subfamily of transcription factors. Previous transcriptome analysis suggests that R SM1 may be involved in many biological processes in the context of plant growth and development.
Mitochondrial complex I, the largest and most complicated proton pump of the respiratory chain, links the electron transfer from NADH to ubiquinone to the pumping of four protons from the matrix into the intermembrane space. Recent progress in the X-ray structural analysis has confirmed that the redox reactions are confined entirely to a hydrophilic peripheral arm of L-shaped molecule and take place at a remarkable distance from membrane domain as revealed by single particle analysis. The analysis of subuni
Fever is an initial, nonspecific, acute-phase response to infections, with survival chances beginning to decrease when fever exceeds 39. 5°C, suggesting the existence of an upper limit for the optimal fever range. We have focused here on the in vitro changes in binding affinities for two antibody-antigen immune complexes of two widespread, fever-inducing infectious diseases. To this end, we made use of antigens from dengue virus serotype 2 DENV-2 and from a protozoan pathogen, namely the 19-kDa carboxy-term, which is the causative agent of the most widespread and febrile infectious disease in humans.
Cortical flow is a fundamental and ubiquitous form of cellular deformation that underlies cell polarization, cell crawling and multicellular tissue morphogenesis. Cortical flows originate within a thin layer of cross-linked actin filaments and myosin motors, in which active stress produced by motor activity is opposed by passive resistance. Continuous flow requires local remodeling through crosslink unbinding and/or filament disassembly. How this tunes stress production and dissipation, and how this in turn tunes the stress-producing process of motor-activity.
Seedling establishment is inhibited on media containing high levels ( ∼6% ) of glucose or fructose. Genetic loci that overcome the inhibition of seedling growth on high sugar have been identified using natural variation analysis and mutant selection, providing insight into sugar signaling pathways. In this study, a glucose and fructose-sensing QTL ( GSQ11 ) was mapped through selective genotyping and confirmed in near-isogenic lines in both Col and C24 backgrounds. Allelism tests and transgenic complementat were used to confirm the presence of the gene locus that underlies the inhibitory effect of high-glycose or-fructose seedlings on a high level of sugar or, in the case of Col, C23, and Col backgrounds, as well as transgene complementats.
The molecular basis of second messenger signaling relies on an array of proteins that synthesize, degrade or bind the molecule to produce coherent functional outputs. In this study, we show an example of how this signaling pathway gains output specificity in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We observed the occ
Humans can learn and store multiple visuomotor mappings ( dual-adaptation ) when feedback for each is provided alternately. Moreover, learned context cues associated with each mapping can be used to switch between them. However, very little is known about the associative learning between cue and required mapping, and how learning generalises to novel but similar conditions. To investigate these questions, we developed a Bayesian learning model in which we combine ideas from optimal motor control and Mixture to investigate the association between learning and learning in the context of both. Our results show that learning is generalised to new but novel conditions and that it is possible to use the same information in different contexts.
The cerebellum ensures smooth and well-timed execution of ongoing motor tasks, making use of mainly two input channels: ( 1 ) the mossy fibers ( MF ) carrying information from many brain regions and thought to provide contextual information e. g. regarding sensory input from different modalities as well as ongoing brain activity and proprioceptive information, and ( 2 ) climbing fibers, which carry information about sensory events such as a touch sensation on a specific part of the skin. Because of its clea
Iron is essential for all known life due to its redox properties; however, these same properties can also lead to iron toxicity in overload through the production of reactive oxygen species. Robust systemic and cellular control are required to maintain safe levels of iron, and the liver seems to be where this regulation is mainly located. Iron misregulation is implicated in many diseases and as our understanding of the iron metabolism improves, the list of these iron-related disorders grows. Recent developm
The nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) regulates molecular traffic across the nuclear envelope ( NE ). Selective transport happens on the order of milliseconds and the length scale of tens of nanometers; however, the mechanism remains elusive. Central to the transport process is the hydrophobic interactions between karyopherins ( kaps ) and Phe-Gly ( FG ) repeat domains. We have established a coarse-grained model of the NPC structure that mimics nucleocytoplasmic transport. The model predicts that the first-passa particle is transported by a first passa, and that it will be able to reach the nucleus in a few seconds.
The nonhuman primate ( NHP ) model is often the best experimental model for testing interventions designed to block infection by human pathogens, such as HIV, tuberculosis, and malaria. A physiological model may require the use of a limiting infectious dose of the infectious agent, where only a fraction of animals become infected upon any given challenge. Determining the challenge dose is critical to the success of an experiment: using too-high or too low a dose may lead to false negative results as well as false positive results.
Sensory systems adapt their neural code to changes in the sensory environment, often on multiple time scales. Here, we report a new form of adaptation in a first-order auditory interneuron ( AN2 ) of crickets. We characterize the response of the AN1 neuron to amplitude-modulated sound stimuli and find that adaptation shifts the stimulus–response curves toward higher stimulus intensities, with a time constant of 1. 5 s for adaptation and recovery. The spike responses were thus reduced for low-intensity sound, and the spike response was thus increased for high intensity sound.
Prions are infectious proteinaceous particles that cause fatal neurodegenerative diseases, including Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( BSE ), and chronic wasting disease ( CWD ). Prions contain PrPSc, a protease-resistant detergent-insoluble β-sheet-rich conformer of the normal cellular protein PrPC, which is an essential and possibly the sole component of infectious prions. By serial protein misfolding cyclic amplification, prion infectivity can be propagated in vitro. However, by serial-protease de-facto amplification of a normal protein protein, the only component that is known to be essential for the infectious nature of these particles, it is not possible to propagate in vivo.
Animals are able to reach a desired state in an environment by controlling various behavioral patterns. Identification of the behavioral strategy used for this control is important for understanding animals’ decision-making and is fundamental to dissect information processing done by the nervous system. However, methods for quantifying such behavioral strategies have not been fully established. In this study, we developed an inverse reinforcement-learning ( IRL ) framework to identify an animal “savioral control strategy” that is used by animals to control their behavior. We developed a framework for the identification of such a strategy in the context of animal decision making.
The contribution of photosynthetic algae to the maintenance of global ecological health is well recognized. However, ‘omics’ level characterization of algae is sorely lacking when compared to organisms related to human health or plant biotechnology. Here we report the draft genome sequence of Chrysochromulina tobin ( Prymnesiales ) a marine species well known for its calcified scales and forms large blooms that are visible from space. Genes important to fatty acid synthesis, modification, and catabolism sh
Breast cancers that are “triple-negative” for the clinical markers ESR1, PGR, and HER2 typically belong to the Basal-like molecular subtype. Defective Rb ( RB1 ), p53 ( TP53 ) and Brca1 pathways are each associated with triple-positive breast cancers. In this study, we show that the combined inactivation of the two canonical tumor suppressor proteins ( pRb ) is sufficient to suppress the physiological cell death of mammary involution and predisposes highly penetrant, metastatic adenocarcinomas.
Aedes aegypti ( L. ) is the primary vector of dengue, the most important arboviral infection globally. Until an effective vaccine is licensed and rigorously administered, control remains the principal tool in preventing and curtailing the disease. Accurate predictions of vector populations are required to assess control methods and develop effective population reduction strategies. A primary determinant of adult mosquito population density concerns the types and number of containers in a given environment.
Animals integrate external cues with information about internal conditions such as metabolic state to execute the appropriate behavioral and developmental decisions. Information about food quality and quantity is assessed by the intestine and transmitted to modulate neuronal functions via mechanisms that are not fully understood. Here we show that the conserved Target of Rapamycin complex 2 ( TORC2 ) coordinates larval development and adult behaviors in response to environmental cues and feeding state in th
Pluripotent stem ( ES ) cells are a remarkable model for the study of early development and hold promise as a source for cell replacement therapies. To successfully manipulate ES cells in culture, it is important to understand the mechanisms by which ES cell maintain their self renewal and pluripotency. In this paper, we developed a novel computational algorithm, CompMoby, which combines analyses of sequences both aligned and non-aligned between different genomes with a probabilistic segmentation model to s
Replication of non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses requires the continuous supply of the nucleoprotein ( N ) in the form of a complex with the phosphoproteins ( P ). In vesicular stomatitis virus ( VSV ), a prototypical rhabdovirus, the N0-binding region of P contains transient helical elements and may thus constitute a short molecular recognition element ( MoRE ) that folds upon binding to its partner. The structure of this complex also suggests a mechanism for the initiation of viral RNA synthesis.
Gap junctions ( GJs ) underlying the operation of electrical synapses are found in both the central nervous system and the sensory system. However, their functional role still remains elusive despite extensive studies. Here we address this problem in the vertical system ( VS ) network of the fly visual system, where recent studies have identified that in this sensory network, individual neurons primarily use the axonal voltage to communicate with one another. This provides a unique opportunity to characteri
Enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) is one of the major causative agents of hand, foot, and mouth disease, a common febrile disease affecting mainly young children in the Asia-Pacific region. Recently we identified human P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 ( PSGL- 1 ) as a cellular receptor for entry and replication of EV 71 in leukocytes. In the present study, we generated a series of mutants and an inhibitor of sulfation. We identified the post-translational modifications that are critical for the binding of S- and O-gl, and we found that the effects of sulfuration on the ability to bind to the two proteins sulfated by the cell surface of E-V71.
Leishmaniasis is a serious global health problem affecting many people worldwide. While patients can be treated with several agents, drug toxicicty and the emergence of resistant strains render available treatments ineffective in the long run. Inhibitors of the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) have been demonstrated to exert anti-pathogen properties in controlling infection with Leishmania major. We investigated the therapeutic efficacy of three different m TOR inhibitors, GSK-2126458 and KU-0063794, and found that they were able to inhibit the pathogen-causing pathogenic bacteria in control of infection.
Natural transformation is a widespread biological property shared by dozens of bacterial species which plays a key role in evolution by generating genetic diversity through horizontal gene transfer. In the human pathogen Neisseria meningitidis, natural transformation promotes gene reassortment on a massive scale with up to 200 genes frequently differing between isolates. Natural transformation, which has been studied for almost a century and was key to the discovery that DNA carries genetic information, is 
Cytokinesis is the final stage of the eukaryotic cell cycle, when a mother cell separates into two daughter cells. In fungal cells cytokineis requires coordinated closure of a contractile actomyosin ring ( CAR ) and synthesis of specialized cell wall structure known as the division septum. Many CAR proteins have been identified and characterized, but how these molecules interact with the septic synthesis enzymes is unclear. Here, we show that cooperation between the paxillin homolog Pxl1, required for ring closure, and the endocytosis-like cell-wall structure is required to complete the cell division.
Glanders, caused by the gram-negative bacterium Burkholderia mallei, is a highly infectious zoonotic disease of solipeds causing severe disease in animals and men. Although eradicated from many Western countries, it recently emerged in Asia, the Middle-East, Africa, and South America. Due to its rareness, little is known about outbreak dynamics of the disease and its epidemiology. We investigated a recent outbreak of glanders in Bahrain by applying high resolution genotyping ( multiple locus variable number ) to a high-resolution, multi-lobed, multicellular, single-stranded genotype. The results showed that the outbreak was characterized by a large number of loci variable numbers.
American cutaneous leishmaniasis ( ACL ) is a complicated disease producing about 67. 000 new cases per year. The severity of the disease depends on the parasite species; however in the vast majority of cases species confirmation is not feasible. WHO suggestion for ACL produced by Leishmania braziliensis as first line treatment is pentavalent antimonial derivatives ( Glucantime or Sodium Stibogluconate ) under systemic administration. In order to characterise the clinical and parasitological features of 
In Escherichia coli, the biosynthetic pathways of several small iron-scavenging molecules known as siderophores ( enterobactin, salmochelins and yersiniabactins ) and of a genotoxin are known to require a 4′-phosphopantetheinyl transferase ( PPTase ). The pks island is physically associated with the high pathogenicity island ( HPI ) in a subset of highly virulent E. coli strains. In this work we investigated a potential interplay between the synthesis pathways leading to the production of both the fungal to and the pk island. We found that the two pathways are involved in the formation of the pathogenic island and that they are physically linked with a high-pathogenic island island in highly susceptible strains of E. coli.
A fundamental task in sequence analysis is to calculate the probability of a multiple alignment given a phylogenetic tree relating the sequences and an evolutionary model describing how sequences change over time. However, the most widely used models only account for residue substitution events. We describe a probabilistic model of sequence evolution that accounts for insertion and deletion events in addition to substitutions. Starting from a continuous Markov process, we construct a non-reversible generati
Dendritic cells ( DCs ) in the skin and mucosa play a major role as sentinels in detection and uptake of pathogens and initiation of innate and adaptive immune responses. Herpes Simplex Virus ( HSV ) types 1 and 2 are examples of closely related pathogens which invade the anogenital epithelium where the overlaying stratum corneum is thin, absent or traumatically destroyed. In this study, we compared topically infected human foreskin explants with biopsies of initial human genital herpes lesions to show LCs for the first time in a study of the development of herpes simplex virus type 1, 2 and 3. Our results suggest that the overlap between the two lesions is not thin or absent.
Leishmania spp. are dimorphic trypanosomatid parasites that alternate between extracellular promastigote forms found in insect vectors and intracellular amatids. The biogenesis of these two types of parasitophorous vacuoles ( PVs ) involves the acquisition of host cell late endosomes membrane markers, as shown in infected cells immunostained for lysosome-associated membrane proteins ( LAMPs ), Rab GTPases, cathepsin, proton ATPases and MHC class II molecules, which are presumably required for the survival a
Homologous recombination provides a pathway for restoring or altering DNA sequence and structure. Homology-directed repair involves two DNA molecules, the recipient, which is the site of the DNA lesion, and the donor. In human cells, transcription of a donor promotes its use in gene conversion using the chicken B cell line DT40 as a model. We found that the immunoglobulin Vλ pseudogene array is characterized by histone modifications associated with active chromatin. Using a regulatable experimental system i
Cerebellum-based motor learning is guided by the difference between the desired and the actual behavior, i. e., by error information. Not only immediate but also future behavior will benefit from an error because it induces lasting changes of parallel fiber synapses on Purkinje cells ( PCs ) whose output mediates the behavioral adjustments. Olivary climbing fibers, likewise connecting with PCs, are thought to transport information on instant errors needed for the synaptic modification yet not to contribute to the change in the behavior. In this study, we show that a climbing fiber, which connects with PC, can transport the information that is needed to make the changes in parallel fibers.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease characterized by selective loss of motor neurons with inclusions frequently containing the RNA/DNA binding protein TDP-43. In this study, we show that overexpression of the yeast prion, Sis1, dramatically alters cell shape and reduces ubiquitin dependent proteolysis of a reporter construct. We also show a new yeast homologue, DNAJB1. These results suggest that the mammalian homologues may have neuroprotective effects in ALS.
Chagas disease is considered the most important parasitic infection in Latin America, with serious consequences for public health and national economies. It is estimated around 6 million to 7 million people infected worldwide and 75 to 90 million exposed to infection by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. In the chronic phase, the disease shows a diversity in clinical manifestations, from indeterminate to cardiac and/or digestive forms. Nevertheless, biomarkers for disease progression and prognosis are still un
Rabies in bats is considered enzootic throughout the New World, but few comparative data are available for most countries in the region. As part of a larger pathogen detection program, enhanced bat rabies surveillance was conducted in Guatemala, between 2009 and 2011. A total of 672 bats of 31 species were sampled and tested. Viral antigens were detected and infectious virus was isolated from the brains of two common vampire bats ( Desmodus rotundus ). RABV was also found in oral swabs, lungs and kidneys of humans. Infection of the human host with the virus and the saliva of human blood were also detected.
Herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) undergoes productive infection through transcription and replication of its viral genome within the nucleus. The nuclear lamina is thought to serve as a molecular scaffold for DNA genomes and the protein complexes that regulate both euchromatin and histone modifications. However, little is known about the nuclear location where chromatin modification takes place or is regulated beyond the role of the N-type lamins. In this report, we show that lamin A/C is required for the targe, a protein complex that plays a role in the regulation of both DNA and RNA genomes. Our report provides a detailed description of how the nuclei are regulated in this region.
Mitochondria originated from proteobacterial endosymbionts, and their transition to organelles was tightly linked to establishment of the protein import pathways. The initial import of most proteins is mediated by the translocase of outer membrane ( TOM ). Although TOM is common to all forms of mitochondria, an unexpected diversity of subunits between eukaryotic lineages has been predicted. However, experimental knowledge is limited to a few organisms and so far, it remains unsettled whether the triplet-por
Inappropriate activation or inadequate regulation of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells may contribute to the initiation and progression of multiple autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Studies on disease-associated genetic polymorphisms have highlighted the importance of biological context for many regulatory variants, which is particularly relevant in understanding the genetic control of the immune system and its cellular phenotypes. In this study we show cell type-specific expression of genes associated with several autoimmu. We show that these genes are involved in the development of several autoimmune, inflammatory, and autoimmune diseases, as well as in their expression in response to immune responses.
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) also known as African sleeping sickness, is a neglected tropical disease that affects mainly poor populations living in rural areas. It evolves in two clinical stages. The early haemo-lymphatic stage is characterized by non-specific clinical signs. At this stage the infected persons do not yet feel the need to consult a health provider. Therefore melarsoprol is still being used instead of NECT in some areas, in order to avoid confusion and a sense of discrimination. In
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ), also called kala-azar, is a parasitic disease caused by members of the Leishmania donovani complex and transmitted by the female phlebotomine sand flies. It mainly affects areas in South Asia ( India, Bangladesh, and Nepal ) and Eastern Africa, where Sudan is the most affected country, followed by Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia and Uganda. In Sudan, the causative agent is Lutzomyia ( Ph. orientalis ). The main endemic area is Gedaref State, with a mean yearly incidence between 6 and 6. 6 
Gyrase catalyzes negative supercoiling of DNA in an ATP-dependent reaction that helps condense bacterial chromosomes into a compact interwound “nucleoid. ” Supercoil levels vary with growth conditions, and topoisomerase mutations arise as evolutionary adaptations in bacterial populations undergoing long-term growth on a monotonous carbon source. Our understanding of the roles of enzymes that contribute to the dynamics of transcription has remained largely untested. To decipher critical mechanisms that can c
The intracellular protozoan Leishmania replicates in parasitophorous vacuoles ( PV ) that share many features with late endosomes/lysosome. L. amazonensis PVs expand markedly during infections, but the impact of PV size on parasite intracllular survival is still unknown. Here we show that LYST/Beige, a gene previously shown to regulate lysosomal size, is upregulated in infected macrophages and fibroblasts. Mutations in this gene led to further PV expansion and enhanced parasite growth. In contrast to overexpr, overexpression of the gene in the macroblast was associated with increased PV growth and increased parasite invasion. We also found that the expression of a new gene that regulates the size of LYSOSOMO/BEIGENE, which is previously known to be involved in regulating the number of parasites in a cell, was increased during infection. This is the first study to show how a single gene can regulate parasite size.
The Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome ( AHDS ) is an X-linked psychomotor retardation characterized by delayed development, severe intellectual disability, muscle hypotonia, and spastic paraplegia, in combination with disturbed thyroid hormone ( TH ) parameters. In order to determine the pathophysiological mechanisms of this disorder, MCT8 knockout mice were intensively studied. Although these mice faithfully replicated the abnormal serum TH levels, they failed to exhibit the neurological and behavioral symptom. The results of the study showed that the mice did not replicate the normal serum serum levels in the absence of any neurological or behavioral symptoms.
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a ubiquitous virus that infects a wide variety of cell types using distinct entry pathways that involve different forms of the gH/gL glycoprotein and gB. In contrast, the minimal or core fusion machinery ( sufficient for cell-cell fusion ), is just G-protein. Here, we demonstrate that GB molecules form a stable complex early after their synthesis and in the absence of other viral proteins. The interaction was observed in extracellular virus particles that lacked the capacit, such as the intracellular viral particles lacking the viral protein. We show that the interaction between GB and the host cell is mediated by the presence of a protein-coupled complex that is stable and stable.
Mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) sequence variants segregate in mutation and tissue-specific manners, but the mechanisms remain unknown. Using a heteroplasmic mouse model, we show that Gimap3, an outer mitochondrial membrane GTPase, is a critical regulator of this process in hematopoietic tissues, suggesting that leukocyte survival may be a key factor in the genetic regulation and in modulating human mitochondrial diseases.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a geographically-restricted skin and soft-tissue infection caused by Mycobacterium Ulcerans; contact with an endemic region is the primary risk factor for disease acquisition. Globally, efforts to estimate the incubation period of BU are often hindered as most patients reside permanently in endemic areas. However, in the south-eastern Australian state of Victoria, a significant proportion of people who acquire BU is visitors to endemic regions. In our study, we estimated that BU in Victoria was the second most common cause of disease acquired in this state.
The intracellular parasite Toxoplasma gondii resides in a unique vacuole formed in the cytoplasm of mammalian cells during invasion. Although separated from the nutrient-rich cytosol by the PV membrane, the parasite has nevertheless evolved efficient strategies to co-opt multiple host cellular pathways and host organelles, to acquire essential nutrients and fuel its growth. We have recently identified a transport system of cholesterol ( and other lipids ) that allows access to cholesterol in host lysosomes.
Ophthalmo–acromelic syndrome ( OAS ) is one of the most frequently reported causes of true anophthalmia, which occurs in association with a distinctive pattern of distal limb anomalies. This original report illustrated the phenotypic spectrum associated with this disorder. The orthologous gene in the mouse, Smoc1, shows site- and stage-specific expression during eye, limb, craniofacial, and somite development. We also report a targeted pre-conditional gene-trap mutation that reduces mRNA to ∼10% of wild-typical mice.
Infection of vertebrate cells by many viruses provokes synthesis and secretion of interferons ( IFNs ), which mediate induction of a cellular antiviral state that obstructs further viral spread. In many cell types, the inhibition of later steps in the life cycle following integration seems to be most potent ( reviewed in [2] ). Here we report that the tripartite motif protein TRIM22 is a key mediator of HIV replication. We used transcriptional profiling to identify cellular genes that were induced by interf
Mutualisms are interspecific ecological interactions in which both players benefit. Explaining their maintenance is problematic, because cheaters should outcompete cooperative conspecifics, leading to mutualism instability. Monoecious figs ( Ficus ) are pollinated by host-specific wasps ( Agaonidae ) whose larvae gall ovules in their “fruits” ( syconia ). Female pollinators ( foundresses ) oviposit directly into fruit trees from inside the fruit's inner cavity. However, there is a widely documented segrega, which does not exist in the wild. This is due to the fact that it is difficult to explain the maintenance of these segregas.
Organismal growth of plants is a dynamic process that is influenced by genetic and environmental factors and has a pronounced effect on overall plant architecture and biomass composition. We have performed six controlled growth trials of an interspecific setaria italica x Setaria viridis recombinant inbred line population to assess how the genetic architecture of plant height is affected by developmental queues, water availability and planting density. The non-destructive nature of this population has enabl
The wetlands of the Brazilian Pantanal host large concentrations of diverse wildlife species and hematophagous arthropods, conditions that favor the circulation of zoonotic arboviruses. A recent study from the Nhecolândia sub-region of Brazil reported serological evidence of various flavivirus infections, including West Nile virus and Ilheus virus ( ILHV ). In this study, we collected and tested adult female mosquitoes for infectious virus, and for RNA detection. One pool containing 50 non-engorged female s was used to detect the presence of a virus in the female mosquito. We also tested the mosquito for infection with a variety of viruses and viruses.
Scabies is one of the commonest dermatological conditions globally; however it is a largely underexplored and truly neglected infectious disease. Foremost, improvement in the management of this public health burden is imperative. Moxidectin ( MOX ), with more advantageous pharmacological profiles may be a promising alternative. Using a porcine scabies model, 12 pigs were randomly assigned to receive oral or intravenous ivermectins ( IVM ) or no treatment. We evaluated treatment efficacies by assessing the efficacy of treatment in a mouse model. In this study, we evaluated the effectiveness of a drug that is effective in treating the disease in pigs.
Many important cellular processes are performed by molecular machines, composed of multiple proteins that physically interact to execute biological functions. An example is the bacterial peptidoglycan ( PG ) synthesis machine, responsible for the synthesis of the main component of bacterial cell wall and the target of many contemporary antibiotics. One approach for identification of essential components of a cellular machine involves the determination of its minimal protein composition. Staphylococcus aureu
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a Gram-negative bacterium that normally survives as a saprophyte in soil and water, but is also capable of infecting most mammals and causing serious infections resulting in the multifaceted disease melioidosis. Despite rapid diagnosis and prompt therapeutic interventions mortality rates still range from >20% in Northern Australia to over 40%. Surprisingly little is yet known about the contribution of critical nutrients such as iron to pathogenesis. It was previously assumed that iron plays a role in iron metabolism and that it is important for iron-rich organisms to be able to survive and cause disease. However, it was not known until recently how iron contributes to the development of the disease and to its contribution to iron production.
Understanding cellular function requires accurate, comprehensive representations of metabolism. Genome-scale, constraint-based metabolic models ( GSMs ) provide such representations, but their usability is often hampered by inconsistencies at various levels, in particular for concurrent models. COMMGEN, our tool for COnsensus Metabolic Model GENeration, automatically identifies inconsistencies and resolves them, thereby contributing to consolidate knowledge of metabolic function. We show that this process can be achieved by automatically identifying and resolving inconsistencies.
Differentiating cells interact with their extracellular environment over time. Chondrocytes embed themselves in a proteoglycan ( PG ) -rich matrix, then undergo a developmental transition, termed � “maturation, ” when they express ihh to induce bone in the overlying tissue, the perichondrium. Mutations disrupting PG synthesis commonly affect skeletal tissues and can change the timing of skeletal development. Here, we use zebrafish mutants to identify mutations in two genes, fam20b and xylosyltransferase1 ( xy ), which are important for the development of the skeletal muscle.
In most organisms, crossing over between homologs during meiosis ensures their faithful segregation at the first meiotic division. However, in Drosophila melanogaster females, the 4th and 5th chromosomes are always achiasmate, and the X chromosomes normally fail to crossover in 6–10% of oocytes. Here, we show that the knockdown of Topoisomerase II ( Top2 ) by RNAi results in a specific defect in the separation of heterochromatic regions after spindle assembly. This defect is due to the failure of the chromosomes to cross over after the formation of a single homologue.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a zoonosis of great importance. Limitations in current control measures compromise efficacy, indicating the need to implement new strategies. We conducted an interventional study in two endemic areas in the district of Monte Gordo ( Bahia-Brazil ) : an intervention area, in which 
X chromosomes are unusual in many regards, not least of which is their nonrandom gene content. The causes of this bias are commonly discussed in the context of sexual antagonism and the avoidance of activity in male germline. Here, we examine the notion that, at least in some taxa, functionally biased genes may more profoundly be shaped by limits imposed on gene expression owing to haploid expression of the X chromosome. We test this hypothesis using The Encyclopedia of DNA Elements ( ENCODE ) and data from a large number of X chromosomes, and we test the hypothesis by examining the existence of a set of genes that are genetically biased due to the presence of an X-chromosome.
Both anatomically modern humans and the gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori originated in Africa, and both species have been associated for at least 100, 000 years. Seven geographically distinct populations exist, three of which are indigenous to Africa. The oldest and most divergent population, hpAfrica2, evolved within San hunter-gatherers, who represent one of the deepest branches of human population tree. We investigated the prevalence and population structure of H. pyleori within Baka Pygmies in Camer, the largest and oldest population in the world. Our study shows that the highest level of diversity in human populations is found within the population of San hunters-gatheringrs.
Dengue virus NS5 is the most highly conserved amongst the viral non-structural proteins and is responsible for capping, methylation and replication of the flavivirus RNA genome. Interactions with host proteins also modulate host immune responses. Although replication occurs in the cytoplasm during infection with no clear role in replication or pathogenesis, the C-terminal region of DENV1 and 2 is sufficient to determine the subcellular localization differences between the four serotypes. In this work, struc
Neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) are parasitic and bacterial diseases that affect an estimated 2. 7 billion of the world's poorest people, causing significant physical debilitation, lowered economic productivity, and social ostracism for afflicted individuals. In order to achieve the rapid scaling-up of programs necessary to reach elimination and control targets, some by as early as 2020, there is a need for feasible and practical protocols that can be implemented by Ministries of Health and whose resul
To ensure the timely and correct inheritance of sister chromatids followed by cytokinesis, eukaryotic cells have evolved sophisticated regulatory networks. Part of the regulatory complexity involves the requirement that a variety of soluble proteins communicate with tightly chromatin-bound factors on chromosomes. An example of such a mechanism in the budding yeast S. cerevisiae is the control of Cdc14, a conserved and essential protein phosphatase, which is kept away from its soluble substrates by its inhibiting inhibitors. The regulation of this mechanism has been shown to be the result of a complex regulatory network consisting of many different soluble protein-binding proteins.
An important research problem in computational biology is the identification of sets of co-expressed genes orchestrating normal or pathological processes, and the characterization of the functional breadth of these programs. The use of human expression data compendia for discovery of such programs presents several challenges including cellular inhomogeneity, genetic and environmental variation across samples, uncertainty in the numbers of programs and sample populations, temporal behavior. We developed Gene
In order to successfully fight infections caused by intracellular pathogens, interferon ( IFN ) -γ is expressed during an immune response primarily by T cell lineages and natural killer ( NK ) cells. Among innate cells, NK cells play a crucial role in the defense against cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) infection. Recently, it was shown that memory-like features can be observed in NK cell subsets of NK. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these adaptive properties have not been completely defined. In the pr
Pathogen-associated secretion systems translocate numerous effector proteins into eukaryotic host cells to coordinate cellular processes important for infection. Spatiotemporal regulation of effectors at different stages of infection is therefore important. Here we provide the first evidence of a “metaeffector, ” a designation for an E3 ubiquitin ligase that functions as a substrate-binding site that hijacks the host proteasome to specifically target the bacterial protein SidH for degradation. Delayed deliv
Adaptation of HIV-1 to new hosts, in particular to the initial immune response, is likely to influence the establishment and progression of new infections. Mutations that enable escape from the host's immune responses will come under selective pressure to revert to wild-type in the newly infected individual. If transmission itself is a selective process, such that, for example, viral variants that are adapted to replication in mucosal cell types are selectively transmitted, the virus may experience selectio
We introduce and analyze a minimal model of epigenetic silencing in budding yeast, built upon known biomolecular interactions in the system. Doing so, we identify two key chromatin marks, namely H4K16 acetylation and H3K79 methylation, and explores whether the presence of multiple marks lead to a qualitatively different systems behavior. We find that having both modifications is important for the robustness of the model. Besides the silenced and transcriptionally active fate of histatin, our model leads to 
Severe acute malnutrition ( SAM ) among children remains a major health problem in many developing countries. SAM manifests itself as two clinical phenotypes, namely oedematous and a non-oedema. The factors determining the clinical phenotype remain unresolved. Recent studies suggest a link between gut microbiota ( GM ) dysbiosis and malnutrition. In the present study, we aimed to assess whether GM composition differed between Ugandan children suffering from either oEDEMATous/non-oxidized SAM. As part of an 
Telomeres are active nucleo-protein sites that constitute the ends of chromosomes in most eukaryotic species. The telomeric DNA is bound by a number of proteins that together form a tight structure that effectively hides chromosome ends from DNA repair enzymes. Telomere length is both species and chromosome specific and appears to play an important role in the normal functioning of a cell. Although the two species share many features, their histories differ notably. S. cerevisiae has been used for thousands
Many decisions are not triggered by a single event but based on multiple sources of information. Sequential sampling models ( SSMs ) have greatly advanced the decision sciences by assuming decisions to emerge from a bounded evidence accumulation process so that response times ( RTs ) become predictable. Here, we demonstrate a difficulty of the standard SSM approach that occurs when a decision is not forced to respond at once but are allowed to sample information sequentially: The decision maker might decide
Hereditary nasal parakeratosis ( HNPK ), an inherited monogenic autosomal recessive skin disorder, leads to crusts and fissures on the nasal planum of Labrador Retrievers. We performed a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) using 13 cases and 23 controls. The analysis of shared haplotypes among the 13 case defined a critical interval of 1. 6 Mb with 25 predicted genes. In this study we identified a missense variant in the SUV39H2 gene encoding a histone 3 lysine 9 methyltransferase, which mediates chromatogenesis and chromatin.
Influenza A viruses ( IAVs ) facilitate emergence of pandemic strains, and swine are proposed as a “mixing vessel” for generating genetic reassortants of avian and mammalian influenza viruses that could be of risk to mammals, including humans. However, how a transmissible reassORTant emerges in swines are not well understood. Genomic analyses of 571 isolates recovered from nasal wash samples and respiratory tract tissues of a group of co-housed pigs ( influenza-seronegative, aviative ( av ) ) and influenza virus ( mammalian ) were performed to determine the extent to which a virus that is of genetic risk for humans could emerge in the swin population. We found that the virus emerged in a large number of isolated pigs and that it was able to be transmitted to humans by the saliva of the pigs’ nose and throat. This study provides new insights into the genetic basis of influenza A virus transmission in pigs.
Schistosomiasis-endemic areas may be sensitised in-utero. This may influence their immune responsiveness to infection and may have implications for pathogenesis of the disease. Here we examined the effect of praziquantel treatment of S. mansoni during pregnancy on the risk of infection among offspring, and on their response when they become exposed to the parasite. In a trial in Uganda ( ISRCTN32849447, http://www. controlled-trials. com ), offspring at five years old were examined for infection, cytokine a, as well as for the response of their innate immune system to exposure to a parasite that is transmitted to them by their mother. We found that the immune response to an infection was similar to that of an infected adult.
Following an infectious challenge, macrophages have to be activated in order to allow efficient clearance of infectious pathogens, but how this activation is coupled to increased clearance remains largely unknown. Here, we describe that inflammatory stimuli induced the reprogramming of the endocytic machinery from receptor-mediated phagocytosis, allowing the rapid transfer of internalized cargo to lysosomes followed by mycobacterial killing. Our results suggest a hitherto unknown mechanism to regulate the i
There is renewed vigour in efforts to eliminate neglected tropical diseases including sleeping sickness ( human African trypanosomiasis or HAT ) including attempts to develop more cost-effective methods of tsetse control. In the West Nile region of Uganda, newly designed insecticide-treated targets are being deployed over an area of ∼500 km2. The effectiveness of the targets will depend, in part, on their acceptance by the local community. We conducted sixteen focus group discussions with male and female p
Recombination is a fundamental biological process that is predicted to increase the effectiveness of selection in natural populations. Yet, direct tests of this prediction have been restricted to qualitative trends due to the lack of detailed characterization of recombination rate variation across genomes and within species. In multicellular organisms, CO maps can also skew population genetic analyses designed to assess the presence and mode of natural selection. Here we report the first integrated integrated high-res CO map, which can be used to test the existence of a natural population, and to predict the mode and presence of evolutionarily conserved organisms.
RNA–directed DNA methylation ( RdDM ) is an important epigenetic modification in eukaryotes including plants and animals. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the Rd DM pathway consists of two atypical multi-subunit DNA-dependent RNA polymerases, which are required for biogenesis of siRNA and long noncoding RNA, respectively. IDN2/RDM12 has been previously identified as a component of the RNA-directed DMS3 pathway. Here, we show that the previously uncharacterized C2H2-type zinc finger domain, a coiled-coil domain and 
Neutrophils are essential components of the early inflammatory response, acting as the first line of defense against invading pathogens and are rapidly recruited to the sites of Leishmania inoculation. Herein we focused on understanding how exposure to L. braziliensis and internalization or/or release of inflammatory mediators impacts the neutrophil response. Inoculation of macrophages with the parasite in vivo significantly increases parasite load whereas co-inoculating of mice with L, which also induced p
Vaccination for the control of bovine tuberculosis ( bTB ) in cattle is not currently used within any international control program, and is illegal within the EU. A new generation of diagnostic tests that Differentiate Vaccinated from Infected Animals ( DIVA ) offer the potential to introduce vaccination within existing eradication programs. We use within-herd transmission models estimated from historical data from Great Britain ( GB ) to explore the feasibility of such supplemental use of vaccination.
Trichuris trichiura is a human parasitic whipworm infecting around 500 million people globally, damaging the physical growth and educational performance of those infected. Current drug treatment options are limited and lack efficacy against the worm, preventing an eradication programme. It is therefore important to develop new treatments for the disease. In this study we screened a library of 480 novel drug-like small molecules for compounds causing paralysis of the adult parasite. We identified a class of 
Protein–protein interaction networks are constructed from mRNA expression data obtained via techniques such as yeast two-hybrid ( Y2H ) screening. They do not capture the fact that the actual interactions that occur in vivo depend on prevailing physiological conditions, and also change over time. Thus, the specific parts of the interactome that are active, as well as their organisational form, might depend a great deal on where and when one examines the network. One way to incorporate such information is to
Understanding transmission dynamics in the early stages of an infectious disease outbreak is essential for informing effective control policy. Valuable insights can be gained by the reconstruction of the transmission tree, which describes the history of infectious events at the resolution of individual cases. Given the unprecedented level of detail of WGS data and the epidemiological insights it has provided in real-life scenarios, genetic analysis is clearly an indispensable tool for outbreak reconstructio
Dosage compensation in mammals is achieved by upregulation of the X chromosome in both sexes and random inactivation of one of two X chromosomes in females. Initially, the future inactive X ( Xi ) is coated by the long non-coding RNA Xist ( X inactive specific transcript ) a process essential for the onset of silencing. Genes that escape XCI usually lack both XIST RNA coating and repressive histone modifications associated with silence. Whether other specific chromatin elements such as CTCF may be implicat
Plasmodium vivax, one of the most predominant human malaria species worldwide, causes hundreds of millions of illnesses each year, and can result in severe morbidity and mortality, especially in children. Emergence and spread of multidrug resistant malaria is an increasing problem, which is associated with fatal disease. Cysteine proteases of malaria parasites are intimately involved in a variety of physiological processes essential for the parasite's survival. The potential roles of P. falciparum and other
Acetogens, fundamental for all living organisms, are ideal candidates for the biotechnological production of commodity chemicals. However, advanced design strategies for acetogens are currently hampered by incomplete knowledge about their physiology and our inability to accurately predict phenotypes. Here we describe the reconstruction of a novel genome-scale model of metabolism and macromolecular synthesis ( ME-model ) to gain new insights into the biology of the model acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii.
Genetic variation plays a key role in shaping phenotypic diversity amongst individuals, where the underlying mechanisms may include polymorphisms that alter protein coding sequences or changes in regulatory sequences that affect the function of a gene or related gene networks. These alterations can affect heritable quantitative traits as well as susceptibility to common complex diseases. Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) are moving towards the use of large cohorts of primary cell lines to study a dis
The yeast Saccharomyces eubayanus is the non-S. cerevisiae parental species of hybrid S. pastorianus lager-type beer brewing yeasts. While most yeast strains utilize the α-tri-glucoside maltotriose, a major carbohydrate in brewer’s wort, most strains lack the transporters to utilize it. In this study, we submitted a yeast strain CBS 12357T to UV-mutagenesis and laboratory evolution in order to obtain maltotide utilization. We identified a novel mosaic SeMALT413 gene, resulting from repeated gene introgressi and repeated expression of the gene. This gene was found to be involved in the formation of a mosaic mosaic of genes in yeast.
Seasonal influenza viruses have caused, and continue to cause, substantial morbidity and mortality. Timely and accurate assessment of their impact on human death is invaluable for influenza planning but presents a substantial challenge, as current approaches rely mostly on intensive and unbiased influenza surveillance. In this study, by proposing a novel host-virus interaction model, we have established a positive correlation between the excess mortalities caused by viral strains of distinct antigenicity an
The Asian soybean rust fungus, Phakopsora pachyrhizi, is an obligate biotrophic pathogen that is a serious threat to the production of large numbers of infectious urediospores under optimal environmental conditions. To date, the genomes of all rust fungi encode many small, secreted cysteine-rich proteins ( SSCRP ). While these proteins are thought to function within the host, their roles are completely unknown. Here, we present the characterization of a PpEC23, which we show to suppress plant immunity. Furt
Chlamydia trachomatis is an obligate intracellular bacterium that invades into host cells to replicate inside a membrane-bound vacuole called inclusion. Multiple different host proteins are recruited to the inclusion and are functionally modulated to support chlamydial development. We identified the cell surface tyrosine kinase EphrinA2 receptor as an invasion and invasion receptor that induces PI3-K activation, promoting Chlamidial replication. Interfering with binding of the Ctr-serovar L2-transfected hos
Dendritic neurons are a class of neurons that are responsible for processing incoming stimuli, which impinge continuously on the many synaptic buttons spread on dendrites. However, despite experimental and theoretical efforts undertaken in the past decades, the role of this excitability for some kind of neuron computation has remained elusive. Here we show that, owing to very general properties of excitable media, a model of an active neuron is a highly non-linear function of its afferent rate, attaining excellently ex-expressed exexpression. This is the first study to demonstrate that a neuron can be a computationally efficient model for the computation of incoming and outgoing stimuli.
A major problem with the inference of regulatory interactions and quantitative models of gene regulation from time-series transcriptomics data has been extensively studied and applied to a range of problems in drug discovery, cancer research, and biotechnology. The application of existing methods is commonly based on implicit assumptions on the biological processes under study. First, the measurements of mRNA abundance obtained in transcriptome experiments are taken to be representative of protein concentra
Outbreaks of zoonotic diseases in human and domestic animal populations often occur with little warning as pathogens spillover from wildlife populations. These events are associated with specific habitats and are often presaged by changes in local environmental conditions. However, relatively little is understood about the sporadic occurrence of local reservoir populations, the duration and spatial relationships ( size and connectedness ) of suitable habitats for reservoirs, or the relationship between host and reservoir.
Influenza A ( H3N2 ) viruses are responsible for ∼500, 000 deaths annually and are a substantial threat to human health. To monitor genetic and antigenic changes, the World Health Organization runs a global surveillance program. Antigenic cartography, involving multidimensional scaling of log-normalized HI titers, subsequently generates an accurate low-dimensional representation of the antigen distances between antigen–antiserum pairs. We have developed a computational method allowing for a more fine-grained and precise low–dimensional image of antigen distance between the two pairs of pairs in order to monitor the molecular and genetic changes of influenza A viruses.
Human papillomavirus type 16 ( HPV16 ) is a small, nonenveloped DNA virus that causes mostly benign lesions in the head and neck. During initial infection, the virus enters basal stem cells or transiently amplifying cells in squamous epithelia. Replication and assembly of new viruses occur during the nucleus, when the host cells differentiate into spinous and granular keratinocytes. Since authentic viruses are difficult to propagated in sufficient amount and purity, most of what is known about early interac
Black Sigatoka or black leaf streak disease, caused by the Dothideomycete fungus Pseudocercospora fijiensis, is the most significant foliar disease of banana worldwide. Due to the lack of effective host resistance, management of this disease requires frequent fungicide applications, which greatly increase the economic and environmental costs to produce banana. Weekly applications in most banana plantations lead to rapid evolution of fungicidal-resistant strains within populations causing disease-control fai
Changes in gene regulation play a key role in the evolution of morphological traits. Although transcription factor binding events show substantial variation across species, most computational approaches to study regulatory elements focus primarily upon highly conserved sites, and rely heavily upon multiple sequence alignments. However, sequence conservation based approaches have limited ability to detect lineage-specific elements that could contribute to evolution. In this work, we describe a novel framewor
The zebrafish is a fascinating vertebrate model for studying this process since unlike mammals, direct exposure of most of its tissues to light leads to local clock entrainment. Importantly, light induces the expression of a set of genes including certain clock genes. However, the mechanism linking light to gene expression remains poorly understood. Using transgenic fish and stably transfected cell line–based assays, we define a Light Responsive Module ( LRM ) within the per2 promoter that is both necessary and necessary for the development of this study. We define the L RM within per1 promoter, a light-responsive module, within which light can be both required and required.
Parasites causing malaria need to migrate in order to penetrate tissue barriers and enter host cells. Here we show that the actin filament-binding protein coronin regulates gliding motility in Plasmodium berghei sporozoites, the highly motile forms of a rodent malaria-causing parasite transmitted by mosquitoes. In non-motile parasites low calcium concentrations mediate the localization to the periphery of the parasite. Engagement of extracellular ligands triggers an intracellular calcium release followed by the relocalizat, which triggers the release of calcium into the host cell and induces the secretion of an inter-ligand-releasing protein. The release is triggered by a calcium-release following a release from the cell surface.
Amphotericin B ( AmB ) is an increasingly important tool in efforts to reduce the global disease burden posed by Leishmania parasites. With few other chemotherapeutic options available for the treatment of leishmaniasis, the potential for emergent resistance to this drug is a considerable threat. In this study we characterised four novel amphotericine B-resistant mexicana lines. All lines exhibited altered sterol biosynthesis, and hypersensitivity to pentamidine. Whole genome sequencing demonstrated resistance-assoc, which was demonstrated to be a significant threat to the ability of the drug to treat the disease caused by the parasite.
Perception is believed to arise from a process of active inference, during which the brain retrieves information from past experiences to build predictive models of likely future occurrences and compares these predictions with incoming sensory evidence. A prominent version of predictive coding theory claims that top-down prediction signals ‘cancel out’ bottom-up sensory signals that match the predicted content, leaving only the remaining prediction error to propagate forward and update a model of the sensor
Trypanosoma brucei is the most prevalent form of the human-infective parasite and is responsible for greater than 90% of reported African sleeping sickness cases. There are two sub-species of T. b. gambiense that differ genetically and by human serum resistance phenotypes. The two human infective subspecies have evolved counter-measures to overcome the innate defense factors. Here we investigate if this is also true in group 2 parasites. Isogenic resistant and sensitive group 1 parasites express the HpHbR g, which is expressed in the same way as a group of parasites, and we show that these two parasite groups express a different set of anti-viral defenses.
DNA methylation of retroviral promoters and enhancers localized in the provirus 5′ long terminal repeat ( LTR ) is considered to be a mechanism of transcriptional suppression that allows retroviruses to evade host immune responses and antiretroviral drugs. However, the role of epigenetic restriction in HIV-1 latency has never been unambiguously demonstrated. Here, we show in an in vitro model of reactivable latency and in a latent reservoir of virus-infected patients that CpG methylated of the HIV5′LTR acts as a DNA methylator of viral promoters, enhancer and promoters localized localized at the 5’ long-terminal repeat. We also show that the viral DNA sequence localized to the 6′-long terminal repeats is epigenetically restricted, and that this restriction is associated with the persistence of HIV1.
Understanding the relationship between genetic and phenotypic variation is one of the great outstanding challenges in biology. To meet this challenge, comprehensive genomic variation maps of human as well as of model organism populations are required. Here, we use an integrative, local assembly-based approach for variant discovery to derive and characterize a genome-wide, nucleotide-resolution catalog of variants including insertions, deletions ( indels ), and complex variants in 39 Drosophila melanogaster. We derive, characterize, and characterize a large-scale, genomic-level catalogue of variant-specific variants.
The neural drive to a muscle is the ensemble of discharge timings of motor neurons innervating different muscles and therefore to infer sources of synaptic input to the muscle. Loss of EMG amplitude due to its overlap with motor unit action potentials ( amplitude cancellation ) may distort the spectrum of the signal and thereby its correlation with the motor drive. In this study, we investigated the impact of amplitude cancelation on this correlation using analytical derivations and a computationa
Aluminium is highly abundant in the soil, but only presents toxicity problems to plants in acid ( pH≤5 ) soils, where it becomes solubilized into the Al3+ ion. The root tip is recognized as the major target of Al stress; in maize, common bean and Arabidopsis thaliana, the distal portion of the root-apex transition zone ( TZ ) is the site for reactive oxygen species production, a class of molecules, which cause root growth inhibition. Here, we report that the YUCCA ( YUC ) family of flavin monooxygenase-like molecules is responsible for the inhibition of plant growth in a variety of soil conditions, such as acid and acid soils.
Natural killer ( NK ) cell responses in primates are regulated in part through interactions between two highly polymorphic molecules, the killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors ( KIRs ) on NK cells and their major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I ligands on target cells. We previously reported that the binding of a common, HLA-Bw4 molecule in the rhesus macaque to the inhibitory receptor Mamu-KIR3DL05 is stabilized by certain simian immunodeficiency virus ( SIV ) peptides, but not by others. He
Bacterial pathogens must sense, respond and adapt to a myriad of dynamic microenvironmental stressors to survive and survive. Adaptation is key for colonization and long-term ability to endure fluctuations in nutrient availability and inflammatory processes. In this study, we detected microevolution in response to transient heme-iron restriction of nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae ( NTHI ). We observed a single nucleotide polymorphism in icc that abolishes 3’, 5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase activase ( NADPH ), a major enzyme that is involved in the production of adenine and phosphate.
Iron plays a central role in host-pathogen-interaction. Iron plays not only multiple roles for bacterial growth and pathogenicity, but also for modulation of innate immune responses. Hepcidin is a key regulator of host iron metabolism triggering degradation of the iron exporter ferroportin. Although iron overload in humans is known to increase susceptibility to Burkholderia pseudomallei, it is unclear how the bacterium competes with the host for the metal during infection. This study aimed to define the role of iron in infection and to understand how iron-host interaction is regulated by the immune system.
Proteins frequently accomplish their biological function by collective atomic motions. Yet the identification of collective motions related to a specific protein function from, e. g., a molecular dynamics trajectory is often non-trivial. Here, we propose a novel technique termed “functional mode analysis” that aims to detect the collective motion that is maximally correlated to the functional quantity. Based on an ensemble of structures, together with an arbitrary ‘functional quantity’ that quantifies the p
Nuclear genes of euglenids and marine diplonemids harbor atypical, nonconventional introns, which are not observed in the genomes of other eukaryotes. In this work, we examined the order of intron removal from Euglena gracilis transcripts of the tubA and gapC genes. We found that the sequence complementary to U1 snRNA at the 5' end has been removed from the pre-mRNA. However, this conformation does not resemble the form of self-splicing. Moreover, the results obtained differed from previous f
Coxsackievirus B ( CVB ) is a common human enterovirus that most commonly causes a self-limited febrile illness in infants, but cases of severe infection can manifest in acute myocarditis. Chronic consequences of mild CV B infection are unknown, though there is an epidemiologic association between early subclinical infections and late heart failure, raising the possibility of subtle damage leading to late-onset dysfunction, or chronic ongoing injury due to inflammatory reactions during latent infection.
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a gram-negative flagellate bacterium that causes melioidosis, a disease endemic to Southeast Asia and northern Australia. The innate immune system provides the first line of defence against microbial infection by the engagement of pattern-recognition receptors including membrane-bound Toll-like receptors ( TLRs ) and cytosolic nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain ( NOD ) -like receptor ( NLR ). NLRs recognize microbial pathogen-associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) leadin
Pollen–stigma interactions are essential for pollen germination. During the interactions between the pollen and stigma, a series of events occur in succession, including pollen adhesion, hydration, and the polarized growth of pollen tubes across stigmatic tissue. However, determining the mechanisms underlying these interactions remains a major challenge. KINβγ is a plant-specific subunit of the SNF1-related protein kinase 1 complex, which plays important roles in the regulation of plant development. Here, we report the identification and characterization of this protein-kinase-1 complex-subunit that plays an important role in plant developmental.
Ribonuclease III is a key enzyme for double-stranded ( ds ) RNA processing reactions in both bacterial and eukaryotic systems. In bacteria, it is best known for its role in ribosomal RNA maturation and mRNA turnover. Here we show that the essential role of RNase III in B. subtilis is to protect it from the expression of toxin genes borne by two prophages, Skin and SPβ, through antisense RNA. Thus, while a growing number of organisms that use RNases III or its homologs as part of a viral defense mechanism ha
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a Neglected Tropical Disease caused by the parasitic filarial nematodes Brugia malayi and B. timori. LF is transmitted through the bite of infected mosquitoes. Infectious L3 stage worms access the human host, migrate rapidly to the lymphatic vasculature and molt to adult worms, which may live for 10–12 years with females releasing microfilariae ( mf ) larvae for a significant portion of this time. The immune response to infection is complex and can change during the course of infection.
Scabies and impetigo are common, important and treatable skin conditions. Reports from several Pacific island countries show extremely high prevalence of these two conditions, but for many countries, including the Solomon Islands, there is a paucity of epidemiological data. Ten rural villages were included in the study, chosen so that data collection could be integrated with an existing project investigating clinical and serological markers of yaws. All residents were eligible to participate, and 1908 peopl
Neurogenesis continues through the adult life of mice in two areas of the mammalian brain, the subventricular zone and dentate gyrus in the hippocampus, but its function remains unclear. Measuring cellular proliferation in a large stock of outbred heterogeneous stock mice revealed a highly significant correlation with the proportions of CD8+ versus CD4+ T lymphocyte subsets. This correlation reflected shared genetic loci, with only the H-2Ea locus that had a dominant influence on T cell subtypes but no impa
Chagas disease is the most common cause of congestive heart failure related deaths among young adults in the endemic areas of South and Central America and Mexico. No vaccines are currently available. Several investigators have documented that protective immune mechanisms against T. cruzi are constituted of a strong lytic antibody response, cytotoxic T lymphocytes activity, and Th1 cytokines. Therefore, DNA/DNA and protein/protein vaccines have been shown to elicit stronger, long-term cellular immunity agai
Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have been successful in identifying disease susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases. However for many conditions, these variants still explain only a small proportion of individual differences in disease predisposition or phenotypic diversity; for example, the 54 validated genetic variants that influence human height collectively only explain 4–6% of variation in the trait after adjustment of age and sex. Identifying most of the remaining genetic varianc
Memory CD8+ T cells in the circulation rapidly infiltrate non-lymphoid tissues following infection and provide protective immunity in an antigen-specific manner. However, the subsequent fate of these diverse memory T cell populations after entering the skin during a secondary infection is largely unknown. Furthermore, because expression of CD62L is often used to identify the central memory ( TCM ) cell subset, uncoupling the physical requirement for lymph node homing versus other functional attributes remai
In neurons polarized trafficking of vesicle-bound membrane proteins gives rise to the distinct molecular composition and functional properties of axons and dendrites. Despite their central role in shaping neuronal form and function, surprisingly little is known about the molecular processes that mediate polarized targeting of neuronal proteins. Recently, the plus-end-directed motor Myosin Va was shown to play a critical function in targeting transmembrane proteins to dendsrites, but the role of myosins in a
Sex determination is a fundamental biological process that affects not only the sexual differentiation of gonads, but also the development of most organs, and leads to sex-specific differences in behavior, physiology and morphology. Genetic sex determination ( GSD ) is attributed to the genetic segregation of genes, often residing on sex chromosomes that initiate alternate sex–determining developmental pathways. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms that regulate sexual dimorphism. Here we describe a new study in which we show that a molecular mechanism is involved in the regulation of the behavior and physiology of many organs.
Genital herpes infection is emotionally upsetting for many individuals based on concerns of transmission to their partners. A vaccine for genital herpes is urgently needed, yet none is available. Researchers are pursuing a herpes vaccine with the goal of preventing genital lesions and subclinical infection, which is typically measured by genital shedding of HSV-2 DNA. We evaluated a vaccine containing glycoproteins C, D and E ( gC2, gD2 and gE2 ) to block virus entry and immune evasion activities. In rhesus, we found that the virus was able to enter and evade the immune system.
Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) has become a versatile high throughput assay for profiling of transcription factor binding and histone modifications. However, interactions in highly repetitive regions of genomes have proven difficult to map since short reads of 50–100 base pairs ( bps ) from these regions map to multiple locations in reference genomes. Standard analytical methods discard such multi-mapping reads and the few that can accommodate them are prone to large false
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic worm infection acquired by contact with contaminated fresh water. Over 90% of the world’s 218 million infections occur in Africa. Prevalence studies suggest that people with chronic infection may have higher risk of HIV infection and impaired ability to control HIV-1 replication once infected. In our study, conducted in an area endemic for S. mansoni, we conducted a nested case-control study within a large ongoing population-based survey of transmission in northwest Tanzania.
Ribosomal DNA is one of the most variable regions in the human genome with respect to copy number. Despite the importance of rDNA for cellular function, we know virtually nothing about what governs its copy numbers, stability, and sequence in mammalian genomes due to challenges associated with mapping and analysis. We applied computational and droplet digital PCR ( ddPCR ) approaches to measure the number of copies in normal and cancer states in human and mouse genomes. Surprisingly, human cancer genomes sh
Mechanistic determinants of bacterial growth, death, and spread within mammalian hosts cannot be fully resolved studying a single bacterial population. They are also currently poorly understood. Here, we report on the application of sophisticated experimental approaches to map spatiotemporal population dynamics of bacteria during an infection. We analyzed heterogeneous traits of simultaneous infections with tagged Salmonella enterica populations ( wild-type isogenic tagged strains [WITS] ) in wild and gene-exposed wild strains in the wild, in a population-based manner. This study provides a detailed description of the molecular basis for the observed phenotypic differences between the two bacterial populations.
The visual system has to instantaneously perceive 3D motion and to infer direction and speed of a moving object. The inverse problem of local binocular motion perception has been extensively studied but there is a surprising lack of studies on the aperture problem and local motion encoding. In this paper we propose that local velocity constraints in combination with local disparity and other depth cues provide a more flexible framework for the solution of the inverse problems. We derive predictions from two
The O-acetylation of polysaccharides is a common modification used by pathogenic organisms to protect against external forces. Pseudomonas aeruginosa secretes alginate during chronic infection in the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients to form the major constituent of a protective biofilm matrix. Four proteins have been implicated in this modification. AlgJ is an SGNH hydrolase-like protein, which while structurally similar to the N-terminal domain, exhibits a distinctly different electrostatic surface than that found in other proteins, such as algGJ, a protein that has been shown to have a different surface structure.
Candida albicans is one of the most common causes of human fungal infections and is an important source of mortality. Candida species are able to diminish its detection by innate immune cells through masking of β ( 1, 3 ) -glucan in the inner cell wall with an outer layer of heavily glycosylated mannoproteins ( mannan ). However, mutations or drugs that disrupt the cells wall can lead to exposure and unmasking. We studied the impact of these signaling routes in affecting β-1, 2, and 3- and 4-fold exposure o
Alzheimer's disease ( AD ) and related dementias are a major public health challenge and present a therapeutic imperative for which we need additional insight into molecular pathogenesis. We performed a genome-wide association study and analysis of known genetic risk loci for AD dementia using neuropathologic data from 4, 914 brain autopsies. Neuropathology data were used to define a clinico-pathological definition of clinical dementia or controls, assess core features of AD ( neuritic plaques, NPs; neurofi
Urea is a protein denaturant that has been used for decades in the study of protein folding/unfolding; however, the ultimate reasons of the denaturing properties of urea remain elusive. We recently combined multi-replica molecular dynamics simulations and direct NMR measures of ubiquitin to characterize the “urea unfolded ensemble” of this model protein. Our results suggest that, unlike the unfolded state of aqueous proteins, it is not a mere spectator of unfolding that simply displaces to the right of fold. Urea’s folded state has not been shown to play a role in folding or folding, but it has played an important role for many years in studying the folding and unfolded states of proteins.
The epidemiology of dengue disease in Colombia was characterized by a stable “baseline” annual number of cases, with major outbreaks in 2001–2003 and 2010, respectively. The geographical spread of the disease showed a steady increase. Most cases were recorded during the review period in the context of national and regional ( state and district ) trends. Incidence ( by age and sex ), seroprevalence and serotype distribution, and other relevant epidemiological data are described.
Tegumentary leishmaniasis ( TL ) is a disease of the skin and mucosal tissues caused by Leishmania parasites. TL patients may concurrently carry other pathogens, which may influence the clinical outcome of TL and vice versa. This review focuses on the frequency of coinfections in human populations and the interactions between the parasite and its host immune response. We searched MEDLINE and other databases and included 73 records: 21 experimental studies in animals and 52 studies about human subjects ( mai
Genetic variation in the major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) affects CD4∶CD8 lineage commitment and T cell expression. However, the contribution of specific genes in this gene-dense region has not yet been resolved. Here, we assessed the impact of natural genetic variation on the expression of the individual traits colocalized within a region of ∼0. 25 Mb. We mapped Quantitative Trait Loci ( QTLs ) to two adjacent intervals of 1–25 Mb in MHA-I and II regions, respectively. An interaction between these two regions was observed. The interaction of these regions is mediated by the presence of a specific gene in one of them.
Chagas disease is a potentially life-threatening illness caused by the protozoan parasite, Trypanosoma cruzi. It is endemic in 21 Latin American countries, and, therefore, it is the European country with the highest expected number of infected patients of the disease. The Spanish Government enacted a Royal Decree in 2012 which basically limits access to free services at the point of delivery for all population ( including non-residents migrants ), undermining the principle of universal coverage which exist 
Pseudomoniasis is an incurable complex disease that is characterized by hyperproliferation and aberrant differentiation of the epidermis, coupled with marked cutaneous inflammation. Environmental triggers for onset of symptoms have been observed, yet genetic predisposition is strong and heritability has been estimated at 80%. Identifying genetic risk factors and understanding the genetic basis of complex diseases, such as psoriasis, are central goals of medicine and biology. We present BlocBuster, a novel s
Agenesis of the corpus callosum ( ACC ), cerebellar hypoplasia ( CBLH ) and polymicrogyria ( PMG ) are severe congenital brain malformations with largely undiscovered causes. We conducted a large-scale chromosomal copy number variation discovery effort in 545 patients with one or more of these three common brain defects and in 2, 349 controls. Rare genic CNVs were those that impacted at least one exon of a gene in less than 1% of patients and patients. Compared to controls, significantly more ACC, but unexpaired, and significantly less ACC. In 2, 349 patients, we found that rare geni CNV were the most common gene affected by a single gene. These results are important for understanding the mechanisms underlying these defects.
Regeneration requires the precise integration of cues that initiate proliferation, direct differentiation, and ultimately re-pattern tissues to the proper size and scale. Yet how these processes are integrated with wounding responses remains poorly understood. The freshwater planarian, Schmidtea mediterranea, is an ideal model to study the stereotyped proliferative and transcriptional responses to injury due to its high capacity for regeneration. Here, we characterize the effector of the Hippo signalling system on the response to a wounding response. We characterize how this process is integrated in the context of wound responses.
Exosomes are small membrane-encapsulated vesicles that secrete into the extracellular environment. The exosome can deliver its content, such as proteins, lipids, and RNAs, to distal tissues or cells and participate in various biological processes. They have been shown to mediate intercellular communication during viral pathogenesis and immune responses. Their roles in viral infections are beginning to be appreciated. In the current study, we showed that EV71 infection resulted in differential packaging of t
Parkinson's disease ( PD ) is a neurodegenerative disease that affects the maintenance of dopaminergic ( DA ) neurons. PD prevalence is estimated at ∼1% among people over the age of 65 and increases with age. Clinical features of PD include motor abnormalities ( tremor, rigidity, akinesia ), autonomic disturbances, psychiatric disability and cognitive impairment. Two PD-associated genes, PINK1 and Parkin, are associated with early-onset autosomal recessive PD, in which loss-of-function ( LOF ) of a single g is lost. One of the two genes that play a central role in the development of Parkinson's is Parkins, a gene that has been linked to the loss of function of one g.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a chronic necrotizing human skin disease associated with the production of the cytotoxic macrolide exotoxin mycolactone. Despite extensive research, the type of immune responses elicited against this pathogen and the effector functions conferring protection against BU are not yet fully understood. Here we have re-evaluated the role of interferon-γ for host immune defense against M. ulcers by comparing progression of infection in IFNγ knockout and wild-type mice experimentally. We have shown that the host response to infection is similar to that of mice that have been treated with IFNs.
The oxidative stress associated with increased production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in mitochondria underlies major systemic diseases, including heart disease, age-related degenerative conditions and ischemic syndrome in reperfusion. However, the mechanism of hypoxia-induced change in ROS production is not fully understood. To mathematically analyze this mechanism in details, taking into consideration all the possible redox states formed in the process of electron transport, even for respiratory co
How genes contribute to pattern formation is one of the central questions of modern developmental biology. Traditionally, this question has been addressed using genetic and molecular approaches. Although very powerful, these approaches have several important limitations: First, it is difficult to study expression features which are not specifically affected by a particular mutation ( see below ). Second, there is always some remaining ambiguity whether an interaction is not only necessary, but also sufficie
Brucellosis is a major re-emerging bacterial zoonosis of global importance affecting a range of animal species and man worldwide and is of importance from economic and public health points of view. It remains an uncontrolled problem in regions of high endemicity such as Africa, the Mediterranean, Middle East, parts of Asia and Latin America. The search for improved vaccines for bovines has continued. Phage lysed bacteria retain maximum immunogenicity as opposed to killing by heat or chemical inactivation of the bacterium. This is the first report on the development of a new vaccine for the use of phage-like bacteria.
Cyclin-dependent kinases ( CDKs ) that promote cell-cycle progression are targets for negative regulation by signals from damaged or unreplicated DNA, but also play active roles in response to DNA lesions. The requirement for activity in the face of DNA damage implies that there are mechanisms to insulate certain CDks from checkpoint inhibition. In mammals, Cdk2 is active throughout the S and G2 phases of the cell cycle and is dispensable for survival, owing to compensation by other genes. Here, we show that the requirement of activity is required for the existence of a specific CDk that promotes the survival of certain genes in mammals.
In recent years, genome-wide association ( GWA ) studies have driven the discovery of genetic loci associated with a multitude of complex traits and diseases. However, due to linkage disequilibrium ( LD ), the single-nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) assayed in large-scale association studies typically yield a proxy for the actual causative variant ( s ) and often fail to even pinpoint the underlying gene. Therefore, it has been postulated that functional variants may exert their effects through regulation of gene expression.
The mechanism ( s ) of action of most commonly used pharmacological blockers of voltage-gated ion channels are well understood; however, this knowledge is rarely considered when interpreting experimental data. Using computer simulations, we demonstrate that this assumption may not always be correct. We simulate the blockade of a persistent sodium current ( INaP ) proposed to underlie rhythm generation in pre-Bötzinger complex neurons, in the intact respiratory network. In this study we provide a mechanisti
MicroRNAs play key roles in tumor metastasis. In the present study, we describe the regulation and function of miR-218 in gastric cancer ( GC ) metastatic GC. We show that the expression of one of its host genes, Slit3, is negatively regulated, thus establishing a negative feedback loop. Decreased miRNA levels eliminate Robo1 repression, which activates the Slits-Robo1 pathway through the interaction between Robo-1 and SlIT2, thereby triggering tumor cell invasion. Our findings not only provide new insights, but also provide a new insight into the role of microRNA as a key regulator of tumor growth.
Atherosclerosis is a lifelong, progressive disease that becomes clinically significant in 50% of the population, leading to myocardial infarction ( MI ), stroke, and eventually death. Statin-based lipid-lowering regimens reduce morbidity and mortality from both MI and stroke but sometimes generate severe side effects. To fully exploit the beneficial effects of lipid lowering, we need a better understanding of transcriptional changes induced by lowering plasma lipoproteins. We used a mouse model that has a p
The cell envelope of Gram-negative bacteria is a formidable barrier that is difficult for antimicrobial drugs to penetrate. Thus, the list of treatments effective against these organisms is small and with the rise of new resistance mechanisms is shrinking rapidly. New therapies are therefore sorely needed. This goal will be greatly aided by a detailed mechanistic understanding of envelope assembly. Although excellent progress in the identification of essential envelope biogenesis systems has been made in re
Dynamical processes in biology are studied using an ever-increasing number of techniques. One of the current challenges is to develop systematic approaches for fusing heterogeneous datasets into an integrated view of multivariable dynamics. We illustrate our approach using a dataset from studies of pattern formation in Drosophila. The result is a continuous trajectory that reveals the joint dynamics of gene expression, subcellular protein localization, protein phosphorylation, and tissue morphogenesis. Our 
Snake venom hemorrhagic metalloproteinases ( SVMPs ) of the PI, PII and PIII classes were compared in terms of tissue localization and their ability to hydrolyze basement membrane components in vivo, as well as by a proteomics analysis of exudates collected in tissue injected with these enzymes. Immunohistochemical analyses of co-localization of these two classes of enzymes with type IV collagen revealed a striking difference between the action of PI and non-hemorrhagic enzymes regarding several extracellul
The homeotic genes in Drosophila melanogaster are aligned on the chromosome in the order of the body segments that they affect. The genes affecting the posterior segments repress the more anterior genes. Abdominal-B ( Abd ) represses abd-A, but also has a second, redundant repression mechanism that acts only “in cis. ” Transcriptional interference is the most likely mechanism.The transcription factors that are coded for by segmentation genes regulate yet another family of developm
Focal seizures are episodes of pathological brain activity that appear to arise from a localised area of the brain. The onset patterns of focal seizure activity have been studied intensively, and they have largely been distinguished into two types—low amplitude fast oscillations ( LAF ) or high amplitude slow ( HAS ). Here, we use a previously established computational model of neocortical tissue as an adequate model to reproduce the clinical observations. We show that the two patterns are associated with 
In contrast to animals and lower plant species, sperm cells of flowering plants are non-motile and are transported to the female gametes via the pollen tube, i. e. the male gamete. Upon arrival at the receptive synergid cell to execute double fertilization, the first players involved in inter-gametophyte signaling to attract pollen tubes and to arrest their growth have been recently identified. Here, we describe the role of polymorphic defensin-like cysteine-rich proteins ZmES1-4 ( Zea mays embryo sac ) in the development of the zygote of a flowering plant. We describe a novel mechanism for the interplay between the formation and growth of these proteins.
Oncolytic viruses aim to specifically kill tumor cells in vitro. A major challenge is the effective targeting of disseminated tumors in vivo. We retargeted herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) tropism to HER-2 oncoprotein p185, overexpressed in ovary and breast cancers. Here, we performed the preclinical evaluation of i. p. administered R-LM249 against peritoneal metastases of human ovarian carcinoma in mouse models that recapitulate tumor spread to the Peritoneum in women. Our results showed that the administration of r- L was effective in the treatment of ovarian cancer in mice.
Centrosomes serve as the poles of the mitotic spindle in eukaryotic cells. Centrosome duplication only once per cell cycle is critical for proper chromosome segregation and is controlled in part by cyclin-dependent kinases ( Cdks ). However, an understanding of how Cdk1 regulates this process is still lacking. In this study, we show that phosphoregulation of Sfi1, a conserved component of centroomes, is required for SPB duplication. We also demonstrate that the protein phosphatase Cdc14 has the converse rol.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) encodes four viral accessory proteins: Vif, Vpu, Nef, and Vpr. Based on their function and phenotype, primary CD4+ T cells are known to induce G2 cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in infected cells in vitro. In addition, vpr is highly conserved in transmitted/founder HIV and in all primate lentiviruses, which are evolutionarily related to HIV. Although these findings suggest an important role of viral protein R ( VPR ), its direct evidence in vivo has not been available.
Vivax malaria was successfully eliminated in South Korea in the late 1970s due to an effective program implemented by the National Malaria Eradication Service of the South Korean government with support from the World Health Organization. In order to control malaria and evaluate the effectiveness of malaria controls, it is important to develop a spatiotemporal understanding of parasite population dynamics. Here, we estimated the population structure and temporal dynamics of transmission of Plasmodium vivaax in Korea by analyzing
The transcription of mRNA is favored over the upstream antisense transcripts ( uaRNA ) initiating from the promoter in the presence of an intron. Mutation of either the 5′ or 3′ splice site resulted in a reversal of promoter directionality, thereby conferring promoter-initiated transcription. We provide evid
Strong selection for lean growth in the domestic pigs during the last 60 years has resulted in increased muscle growth and reduced fat deposition. This quantitative trait nucleotide ( QTN ) is one of the rare examples in which a single base substitution underlying a complex trait has been identified and the mechanism of action is partially understood. Here, we report the identification of a protein that abrogates a binding site for a repressor and leads to a 3-fold up-regulation of IGF2 in skeletal muscle.
RNA editing is a co-transcriptional process that alters hereditary information by introducing differences between RNA and its corresponding DNA sequence. The investigation of such regulation accelerated dramatically after the development of next generation sequencing technology, which facilitates the genome-wide determination of DNA and RNA sequences at relatively low cost; however, several issues regarding this regulatory step remain unresolved – the strategies to accurately delineate the editome, the editingome and the sequence are still unresolved.
Perceptual decisions in a wide range of visual tasks ultimately rely on information encoded in neural responses in primary visual cortex ( V1 ). However, this information may not be readily available to higher levels of the visual system because it is distributed across entire populations of neurons. Thus, each neuron's reliability is limited by intrinsic response variability and its relevance strongly depends on the perceptual task in which the organism is engaged. To form accurate perceptual judgements, t
Piwi-interacting RNAs ( piRNAs ) fulfill a critical, conserved role in defending the genome against foreign genetic elements. In many organisms, piRNA sequences appear to be derived from processing of a long, polycistronic RNA precursor. Here, we demonstrate that each Caenorhabditis elegans pi RNA represents a tiny, autonomous transcriptional unit. Remarkably, the minimal C. elegan genome encodes only a 21 nucleotide ( nt ) RNA sequence and an ∼50-nt upstream motif with limited genomic context for expressio
Brucella spp. replicate within host cells in the form of endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) -derived vacuoles. The mechanisms by which the bacteria are sequestered into such vacosomes and obtain a continuous membrane supply for their replication remain to be elucidated. In the present study, we provide several lines of evidence that demonstrate the mechanism of the intracellular life of B. abortus. First, the unfolded protein response ( UPR ) was activated in a time-dependent manner, but not the PERK and ATF6 pat
Tombusviruses depend on subversions of multiple host factors and retarget cellular pathways to support viral replication. In this work, we demonstrate that tomato bushy stunt virus ( TBSV ) and the closely-related carnation Italian ringspot virus, which are closely related to CIRV, recruit the cellular Vps34 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( PI3K ) into the large virus replication compartment in model yeast and plant hosts. We also observed increased expression of the p33 replication protein and higher abunda, and increased abundancea for the replication proteins and p34 replication gene.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) remains the most prevalent of the mosquito-borne viruses, with patterns of disease varying geographically based on the co-circulation of serotypes 1–4, different virus genotypes, human population growth and migration, including urbanization, and geographic expansion of mosquito vectors. While infections in humans have been extensively studied in clinic- and community-based studies, examining the infectiousness of virus from humans to mosquitoes has faced challenges related to methods a
The roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans has the advantages of both S. cerevisiae and D. melanogaster because large cross populations can be generated to study the physiological effects of small molecules and repurposed as screening platforms to identify new antineoplasti
Most of the available information about the genetic mechanisms that govern lifespan and aging were obtained by studying single-gene mutations in invertebrates or short-lived, highly inbred vertebrate species. However, it is not clear whether insights about aging relevant genes and pathways gained from these species can be applied to long- lived species like humans. To gain new insights into genetic mechanism determining mammalian lifespans, we obtained genomic and transcriptomic data from 17 rodent species and compared them to those of humans and other animals. We found that most of these genes were inherited in the same species as humans, but that they were also inherited from other species, such as other vertebrates.
Despite control measures applied worldwide over decades, arthropod-borne diseases continue to pose a constant threat to human and domestic animal health. Human-induced changes in the environment, climate change, passive transportation and acquisition of resistance to insecticides by the vectors are contributing to a dramatic re-emergence of harmful viruses such as dengue and yellow fever ( DENV ) transmitted by mosquitoes. As well, further pathogens are rapidly spreading in areas where suitable vectors and 
Many biological responses to intra- and extracellular stimuli are regulated through complex networks of transient protein interactions where a globular domain in one protein recognizes a linear peptide from another, creating a relatively small contact interface. These binding patterns are often found in unstructured regions of proteins, and contain a consensus motif complementary to the interaction surface displayed by their binding partners. While most current methods for the de novo discovery of such moti
Environmental enteropathy ( EE ) is associated with growth failure, micronutrient malabsorption and impaired responses to oral vaccines. We set out to define cellular mechanisms of impaired barrier function in EE and explore protective mechanisms. Using confocal laser endomicroscopy ( CLE ), we studied 49 adults in Lusaka, Zambia. CLE images ( median 134 for each study ) showed virtually ubiquitous small intestinal damage. Epithelial defects were predominantly seen at the tips of villi and corresponded with the size of the intestinal epithelium, which is the epithelial tissue that is most affected by the immune response to the oral vaccine. Our study showed that small intestine damage was predominantly found in the tip of a villial villium and was mainly seen in areas where the mucosa is thickest.
Superinfection exclusion ( SIE ) refers to the ability of a pre-existing virus ( the primary invader ) to exclude secondary infections by the same or closely related viruses ( superinfectors ) at cellular and/or organismal levels. This phenomenon has been observed with many human and animal pathogenic viruses, including the reverse-transcribing human immunodeficiency virus, positive sense ( + ) RNA viruses such as hepatitis C virus and West Nile virus. In this study, we uncover a novel role of p28, one of t
The Trypanosoma cruzi trans-sialidase ( TS ) gene is expressed on blood form trypomastigotes, and is also present during early and late stage intracellular infection. TS cleaves sialic acid, which seems to be required for parasite infectivity, but toxic side effects limit their use. Because of the high risk of infection and disease in endemic countries and the lack of well tolerated trypanocidal drugs, a safe and effective vaccine is needed. In this work, we describe the enhancement of long-term CD8+ T cell ( T-cell ) in the development of a vaccine that is effective and safe.
The Polo-like kinase homolog in Trypanosoma brucei, TbPLK, plays essential roles in basal body segregation, flagellum attachment and cytokinesis in a wide variety of eukaryotes. Here, we report the Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase complex, which is composed of the DNA damage-binding protein 1 and a WD40-repeat protein WDR1, and is responsible for controlling the abundance of protein in both the basal and the bilobe during the cell cycle transition from G1 to S phase. Depletion of this complex impaired the phosproductal response to the stressors of stress and inflammation. This complex is essential for the formation of a protective immune system and to maintain the proper balance between the body and its environment.
DExD/H box RNA helicases, such as the RIG-I-like receptors ( RLR ), are important components of the innate immune system. Here we demonstrate a pivotal and sex-specific role for the heterosomal isoforms of DDX3X in innate immunity to Listeria monocytogenes ( Lm ). Mice lacking the receptor for type I interferon ( IFN ) in the hematopoietic system showed an altered leukocyte composition in bone marrow and spleen and a striking inability to combat infection. Alterations in immune responses resulted from alterations in Leukocytes composition and the lack of a protective immune response against infection, resulting from an increased risk of infection and increased susceptibility to disease.
Olfactory receptor neurons ( ORNs ) are essential for the recognition of odor molecules. In insects a smaller number of ORs have been identified, but the full description of such a complex signaling network, involving both feedforward and feedback processes, is a daunting task. Modeling can contribute to this description by integrating various effects and displaying quantitatively what results from the interplay of all molecular actors. The knowledge accumulated on the pheromonal ORN is sufficient to start 
Tumor suppressor p53 is activated in response to DNA damage and cellular stress signals and regulates the expression of target genes to elicit cell-growth arrest, DNA repair repair, or apoptosis to prevent the propagation of damaged or compromised cells. Understanding the regulatory logic and functional output of p3 is critical to understanding p54 biology in normal and tumor cell lines. We have used a well-characterized lymphoblastoid cell culture exposure model system to explore the role of chromatin stat
Bacterial two-component signaling systems offer a rich diversity of sensory systems that are built around a core phosphotransfer reaction between histidine kinases and their output response regulator proteins. Here, we explore th
In many systems, individual cells within isogenic populations can show significant variation in stress tolerance, but the nature of this heterogeneity is not clear. We used single-cell RNA sequencing to quantify transcript heterogeneity in single Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells treated with and without salt stress to explore population variation and identify cellular covariates that influence the stress-responsive transcriptome. Leveraging the extensive knowledge of yeast transcriptional regulation, we uncovoked the yeast genome and found that the expression of a yeast-derived yeast protein, the transcription factor, is highly variable in the presence of stress. Our results suggest that this variation may be due to a variety of cellular factors.
Trypanosoma brucei is a protozoan parasite transmitted between mammals by the bite of a tsetse fly. It has been recently shown that parasites accumulate in large numbers in various organs and tissues, including the mouse testis. Whether these parasites are protected from the immune system in the male reproductive organ or can be transmitted through sexual route remains unknown. In this work we show that the majority of the parasites in this organ accumulate outside seminiferous tubules and epididymal ducts, in a manner that is not well understood.
Chemosensation is critical for animal survival and reproduction as chemical cues direct foraging behavior and food selection, predator avoidance, and, in insects, host plant recognition for oviposition and larval feeding. Chemical signals are also essential for the selection of mating partners, maternal behavior, kin recognition. As a consequence of the profound importance of chemicalensation for survival, reproduction, several large families of chemosensory genes have evolved through repeated processes of gene duplicat
Meiotic errors generate an extraordinary number of chromosome abnormalities in humans, with most of the abnormalities originating in the first meiotic division in oocytes. Studies of human trisomies indicate that a proportion of homologs are either achiasmate or tethered by sub-optimally located crossovers. However, it is assumed that these configurations become more likely to nondisjoin during maternal meiosis I or II. In this study, we used immunofluorescence in situ hybridization ( FISH ) to analyze the 
When a mammal is bitten by a blood feeding arthropod, it is injected with vasodilatory and immunomodulatory compounds that facilitate feeding. These compounds are injected into the saliva of an uninfected vector, and the resulting saliva induces a variety of immune responses. In Leishmania, from which the majority of empirical evidence is available, experimental rodent infections have demonstrated that prior exposure to sand fly saliva partially protects against the symptoms of a subsequent infection. Howev
Leishmaniasis is an important disease that affects 12 million people in 88 countries, with 2 million new cases every year. One interesting issue rarely analyzed is how the host immune response affects Leishmania phenotype and virulence. Aiming to study the effect of host immunity system on the proteomes of amastigotes isolated from BALB/c and
Activation Induced Deaminase ( AID ) deaminates cytosines in DNA to initiate immunoglobulin gene diversification and to reprogram CpG methylation in early development. Activation-induced damage can have pathological outcomes, evident as the chromosomal translocations associated B cell malignancies. Here we show that cell cycle regulates nuclear stability and abundance. By high content screening microscopy, we demonstrate that nuclear degradation occurs more slowly in G1 phase than in S or G2/M phase cells, and that the degradation of DNA is more rapidly in the G/G1 and S-phase cells.
Plants annually produce 200 billion tons of lignocellulosic biomass, which is a vast potential feedstock that industrial microbes could convert into energy and commodities. Elucidating how microbes depolymerize and metabolize plant biomass is thus important to understand carbon flow in the environment, to promote healthy human nutrition and prevent disease, and to develop industrial processes. Here we demonstrate a broadly applicable method to analyze the enzymatic machinery used by microbes to degrade and degrade the biomass produced by plants annually.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) and onchocerciasis are two of the major neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) presently targeted for elimination using the World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommended strategy of preventive chemotherapy and transmission control ( PCT ). In 2008 alone, 56. 7 million people received treatment in 19 endemic African countries. Three integrated annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) were conducted in the 12 co-endemic districts 2008–2010 with good geographic, programme and drug programme performance.
High-throughput sequencing based techniques, such as 16S rRNA gene profiling, have the potential to elucidate the complex inner workings of natural microbial communities - be they from the world's oceans or the human gut. A key step in exploring such data is the identification of dependencies between members of these communities, which is commonly achieved by correlation analysis. However, it has been known since the days of Karl Pearson that correlation estimates are biased by the fact that, since they mus
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading extracellular Gram-positive pathogen that commonly colonizes the human nasopharynx. Although colonization is generally asymptomatic, infection induces an acute inflammatory response characterized by a brisk influx of neutrophils. Because the organism is coated by capsular polysaccharide ( CPS ) covalently attached to its cell wall, it is capable of evading phagocytic clearance and causing invasive disease. The contribution of lysozyme to innate host defense has been ana
Dengue is the most important arthropod borne viral disease worldwide in terms of morbidity and mortality and is caused by any of the four serotypes ( DENV-1 to 4 ). In Brazil, the disease is an important public health problem associated with explosive epidemics and since the introduction in 1986, a total of 5, 944, 270 cases were reported including 21, 596 hemorrhagic fever and 874 fatal cases. Currently, laboratorial diagnosis of patients is based on virus isolation in mosquito cell cultures, detection of virus and infection with the virus in the mosquito.
Multiple Myeloma ( MM ) is a malignancy of plasma cells with significantly greater incidence and mortality rates among African Americans ( AA ) compared to Caucasians ( CA ). The overall goal of this study is to elucidate differences in molecular alterations in MM as a function of self-reported race and genetic ancestry. Our study utilized whole exome sequencing, RNA-sequencing, and correlated clinical data from 718 MM patients from a multi-ethnic cohort at diagnosis to further understand the biological basis of the genetic alterations that occur in the disease.
The vast majority of mutations in the exome of cancer cells are passengers, which do not affect the reproductive rate of the cell. However, passenger mutations can provide important information about the evolutionary history of an individual cancer, and serve as a molecular clock. Passengers can also become targets for immunotherapy or confer resistance to treatment. In this work, we study the stochastic expansion of a population of tumor cells describing the growth of primary tumors or metastatic lesions. We show that passenger mutation can be useful for the development of new therapies or as an immunotherapeutic target.
Polyglutamine ( polyQ ) expansion in exon1 ( XN1 ) of the huntingtin protein is linked to Huntington's disease. When the number of glutamines exceeds a threshold of approximately 36–40 repeats, the polypeptides misfold and form lethal cellular aggregates similar to those observed in the neurons of afflicted patients. Many experiments suggest that the length-dependent aggregation of a poly polypolypolypptide plays an important role in protein aggregation. Elucidating the mis-folding of monomeric X N1 can hel
CRISPR ( Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats ) loci, together with cas genes, form the adaptive immune system, a primary defense strategy that eubacteria and archaea mobilize against foreign nucleic acids, including phages and conjugative plasmids. Short spacer sequences separated by the repeats are derived from foreign DNA and direct interference to future infections, as has recently been shown for marine microbiomes. The availability of hundreds of shotgun metagenomic datasets from t
Most organisms have an endogenous circadian clock that is synchronized to environmental signals such as light and temperature. Although circadian rhythms have been described in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans at the behavioral level, these rhythms appear to be relatively non-robust. Moreover, in contrast to other animal models, no circadian transcriptional rhythm has been identified. Here we use genome-wide expression profiling experiments to identify the expression of circadian oscillating transcripts. We find that there is a lack of a circadian rhythm in this animal model.
The Saccharomyces cerevisae RAD3 gene is the homolog of human XPD, an essential gene encoding a DNA helicase of the TFIIH complex involved in both nucleotide excision repair ( NER ) and transcription. Some mutant alleles have partial defects in DNA repair and a strong hyper-recombination phenotype. We have further characterized these events using a system in which the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination are recovered. Mapping of this event shows that three-quarters of these crossovers reflect DSBs, a gene that encodes the essential transcription factor, and which is responsible for the transcriptional regulation of DNA.
During persistent infection, optimal expression of bacterial factors is required to match the ever-changing host environment. The gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori has a large set of simple sequence repeats ( SSR ), which constitute contingency loci. Through a slipped strand mispairing mechanism, the SSRs generate heterogeneous populations that facilitate adaptation. In this study, we present a model that explains, in molecular terms, how an intergenically located T-tract operates with a rheostat-like fu
High-risk human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) must evade host innate immune surveillance to establish persistent infections and to amplify viral genomes upon differentiation. Members of the JAK-STAT family are important regulators of immune evasion. STAT-5 is another member of this pathway that modulates the inflammatory response and plays an important role in controlling cell cycle progression in response to cytokines and growth factors. Our studies show that HPV E7 activates STAT5 phosphorylation without alte, and that it is important for the immune system to detect and respond to the presence of a cytokine or growth factor.
Salmonella enterica serovars Typhi can colonize and persist in the biliary tract of infected individuals, resulting in a state of asymptomatic chronic carriage. Chronic carriers may act as persistent reservoirs of infection within a community and may introduce infection to susceptible individuals and new communities. Little is known about the interaction between the host and pathogen during S. typhi carriage, and there is currently no reliable diagnostic assay to identify chronic human carriers. We applied a new method for the identification and characterization of human pathogens that can be used as a diagnostic tool to detect human infections.
In order to study the role played by cellular RNA pools produced by homologous genomic loci in defining the transcriptional state of a silenced gene, we used classic Position Effect Variegation ( PEV ) assays in the model system D. melanogaster and tested the effect of non-functional alleles of white, unable to produce a coding transcript but with the potential of transcribing other RNA’s from the white locus, trans-reactivate the variegating wm4h line thus increasing eye pigmentation. Remarkably, this new 
Hematophagous mosquitos and ticks avoid host hemostatic system through the expression of enzyme inhibitors targeting proteolytic reactions of the coagulation and complement cascades. While most inhibitors characterized to date were found in the salivary glands, relatively few others have been identified. Among those, Boophilin is a 2-Kunitz multifunctional inhibitor targeting thrombin, elastase, and kallikrein. Inhibition is accompanied by blockade of platelet aggregation and fibrin formation in vitro. Notably, inhibiting the production of a novel enzyme inhibitor is associated with the inhibition of protein-coupled protein aggregation in vivo.
The mucosa of the intestinal tract represents a finely tuned system where tissue structure strongly influences, and is turn influenced by, its function as both an absorptive surface and a defensive barrier. Mucosal architecture and histology plays a key role in the diagnosis, characterization and pathophysiology of a host of gastrointestinal diseases. Inflammation is a significant control factor governing the structure-function relationship of enteric mucosal tissue. We have developed an agent-based computa
Mosquito-borne diseases heavily impact human health in tropical and subtropical areas, where some of them co-circulates in several countries. Dengue virus ( DENV ) is one of the arboviruses of global health concern in the early 2000‘s, when a new epidemic strain emerged from an enzoonotic lineage. In 2014, the first autochthonous CHIKV cases appeared in Brazil, linked to both the Asian and the East Central South Africa ( ECSA ) genotypes, with the last spreading throughout the country within the span of one
Poxviruses employ sophisticated, but incompletely understood, signaling pathways that engage cellular defense mechanisms and simultaneously ensure viral factors are modulated properly. For example, the vaccinia B1 protein kinase plays a vital role in inactivating the cellular antiviral factor BAF, and likely orchestrates other pathways as well. In this study, we utilized experimental evolution of a deletion virus to perform an unbiased search for suppressor mutations. After several passages of the ΔB1 virus we performed a thorough analysis of an experimentally evolving virus, which allowed us to identify suppressors that could be used to inactivate the antivirals against the virus.
The folding and aggregation properties of soluble peptides and small proteins at hydrophobic/hydrophilic interfaces ( HHI ) play a crucial role in biomedically important processes. One example that has been extensively investigated over the last years are amyloid-fibril forming peptide which are responsible for many human disorders, among them severe neurodegenerative diseases. The amphiphilic character of these molecules is responsible both for their aggregation propensity as well as their strong interface. In this study, we have investigated the aggregation and folding properties and the strength of the small protein at the hydrogobic interface ( HYI ), which is involved in the formation of a large number of human diseases, such as Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson's disease.
Human herpesvirus 6A and 6B ( HHV-6B ) are ubiquitous betaherpesviruses that infects humans within the first years of life and establishes latency in various cell types. Both viruses can integrate their genomes into telomeres of host chromosomes in latently infected cells. The molecular mechanism of viral integration remains elusive. In this study, we determined the role of the telomeric repeats ( TMR ) arrays in viral replication and integration. We established an in vitro integration system that allowed u
In contrast to most enveloped viruses, poxviruses produce infectious particles that do not acquire their internal lipid membrane by budding through cellular compartments. Instead, they are generated from atypical crescent-shaped precursors whose architecture and composition remain contentious. Here we describe the 2. 6 Å crystal structure of vaccinia virus D13, a key structural component of the outer scaffold of viral crescents and immature particles. This protein assembles into trimers that are homologous to the protein that encodes a protein called trimer. We describe this protein in detail and describe its structure and structure as a 3-D structure.
The root system plays a fundamental role for plant growth and survival, not only by providing support, water and nutrients for the shoot, but also by participating in secondary functions, such as hormone biosynthesis or storage of photoassimilates. Root system architecture, that is the number and arrangement of different root types and their branching pattern, is highly plastic and determined by developmental and environmental factors that interact to optimize soil exploration. However, it remains unclear t
The plasticity of biological traits is manifested on multiple time scales. Regulatory mechanisms govern the physiological adaptation of an individual to changing conditions, whereas evolution depends largely on changes in both expression and function. In species of the budding yeast, the rate at which genes diverge in expression correlates with the organization of their promoter nucleosomes. To examine if early evolutionary dynamics contributes to this difference in divergence, we artificially selected for the first time for a gene that diverges in gene expression to be expressed in the same way as the expression of its promoter. We found that this rate of gene divergence is correlated with its organization.
The oncogenic activity of Tax in cell culture and in transgenic mice is driven by NF-κB. Tax is thought to promote cell proliferation and transformation by activating the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome ( APC/C ) and the transcriptional co-activators CBP/p300, p300-CBP-associated factor
The frontal lobes subserve decision-making and executive control—that is, the selection and coordination of goal-directed behaviors. Current models of frontal executive function, however, do not explain how the frontal function continuously arbitrates between ( 1 ) adjusting and staying with the current actor set, ( 2 ) switching to other learned tasks, and ( 3 ) creating new task sets for driving action. Here, we propose a computational formulation of this model that clarifies this issue. The model is based on a model of the brain’s frontal lobe, which has been used for decades to explain the mechanism by which the human brain continuously adjusts and stays with its current set of actors and learns new tasks.
A central aim of medical systems biology is to study molecular mechanisms that drive disease progression and to translate this knowledge into therapies to effectively treat diseases. A challenging task is the investigation of long-term effects of a ( pharmacological ) treatment, to establish its applicability and identify potential side effects. We present a new modeling approach, called Analysis of Dynamic Adaptations in Parameter Trajectories ( ADAPT ), that uses time-dependent evolution of model paramete to determine the time and duration of the change in model parameter parametrized.
The coordination of our multi-segmented bodies and limbs is an unsolved computational challenge that is dealt with seamlessly by the neuronal circuitries of the brain. In this paper, we synthesize a number of findings into a new hypothesis for how the spinocerebellar systems and the cerebellum can interact to support coordination. A central idea is that recombination of sensory and motor inputs can be used to approximate a wide array of functions including the spatial and temporal dependencies between limb 
Mosquitoes play an important role in disease transmission in plants, animals and humans. MicroRNAs ( non-coding RNA ) have been demonstrated to exert determinative influence on various cellular processes. It is becoming abundantly clear that host/vector/pathogen encoded microRNAAs impact eventual pathogenesis. We conducted this study to evaluate the role of host miRNA upon CHIKV ( Chikungunya Virus ) infection in Anopheles and Ae. albopictus Singh's cell line in their respective hosts. In our study, we iden
Cystic echinococcosis ( CE ) is a globally distributed parasitic infection of humans and livestock. The disease is of significant medical and economic importance in many developing countries, including Iran. However, the socioeconomic impact of the disease in most endemic countries is not fully understood. This study was to determine the monetary burden of CE in Iran using existing country-level data relating to human and animal disease. Epidemiological data were obtained from regional hospitals, scientific
The mouse polyomavirus ( MPyV ) lytically infects mouse cells, transforms rat cells in culture, and is highly oncogenic in rodents. We have used deep sequencing to study the transcriptome of mouse NIH3T6 cells at various times after infection and analyzed both viral and cellular transcriptomes. Alignment of sequencing reads to the viral genome illustrated the transcriptional profile of the early-to-late switch with both early and late-strand RNAs being transcribed at all time points. A number of novel insig
The Boston Marathon is one of the world’s largest marathons, and it is a major event in the United States that attracts hundreds of thousands of runners each year. Of those who attempt to race over the marathon distance of 26 miles and 385 yards ( 42. 195 kilometers ), more than two-fifths experience severe and performance-limiting depletion of physiologic carbohydrate reserves, a phenomenon known as ‘hitting the wall. ’ Analyses of endurance physiology have often either used coarse approximations to sugges
Toxoplasma gondii is a ubiquitous obligate intracellular protozoan parasite that can invade and replicate in almost all cells of a wide range of warm-blooded animals. In humans it is the 2nd most important foodborne pathogen in terms of annual cost of illness and quality adjusted life year loss. Normally a lifelong, largely asymptomatic, infection is established but in immunocompromised individuals and in congenital infections, it can lead to severe disease and even death. Nevertheless, not all seropositive infections can be caused by the same parasite, which can infect and replicate in virtually all tissues of the body, including the skin and organs of animals and humans, and can cause severe and sometimes fatal disease.
Recombination in enteroviruses provides an evolutionary mechanism for acquiring extensive regions of novel sequence, is suggested to have played a role in genotype diversity and is known to be key to the emergence of new neuropathogenic variants of poliovirus. Despite the importance of this evolutionary process, the recombination process remains relatively poorly understood. We investigated the ability to generate recombinants in the absence of either replication-competent helper viruses or low frequency re
Obesity, a disease characterized by excess body fat, is a major risk factor for many human diseases, including type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and hepatic steatosis. In mammals, fat is stored primarily in adipose tissue ( AT ) and three distinct types of ATs have been characterized: white AT ( WAT ), brown AT and beige AT. The low catecholamine clearance capacity of SLC6A2 may limit the cleaning efficiency. Here, we report that mouse organic cation transporter 3 ( Oct3; Slc22a3 ) displays the great ability to clean the fat in the presence of a great number of chemicals that are required for the efficient cleaning of the organelles.
The heterochromatin-enriched HP1 proteins play a critical role in regulation of transcription. These proteins contain two related domains known as chromo- and the chromoshadow-domain. In vivo and in vitro experiments have shown that the affinity of these proteins to native histone H3 tails methylated on lysine 9 ( K9 ), an epigenetic mark frequently associated with transcriptional activity, facilitates their binding to nucleosomes. This observation prompted us to investigate whether the proteins could be used to bind to DNA.
RNA molecules will tend to adopt a folded conformation through the pairing of bases on a single strand; the resulting so-called secondary structure is critical to the function of many types of RNA. Yet, some RNA molecules such as microRNAs retain their specific structures during biogenesis, which involves extraction of the substructure from a larger structural context, while other functional RNAs may be composed of a fusion of independent substructures. We define the property of self containment as the principle that self-containment is an important property in RNA biology. Self containment is a property that can be used to protect the RNA molecule from the effects of external forces.
Host cells use an intricate signaling system to respond to invasions by pathogenic microorganisms. Although several signaling components of disease resistance against necrotrophic fungal pathogens have been identified, our understanding for how molecular components and host processes contribute to plant disease susceptibility is rather sparse. Here, we identified four transcription factors ( TFs ) from Arabidopsis that limit pathogen spread. We identified 77 up-regulated genes that encode peptides with a se
The uterine endometrium is receptive to the implanting embryo only during a discrete period in the female reproductive cycle, known as the “window of receptivity” ( WOR ). Incomplete or defective implantation is associated with cases of recurrent pregnancy loss or multiple rounds of unsuccessful in vitro fertilization cycles. Here, we demonstrate that the transcription factor Forkhead Box O1 ( FOXO1 ) is a critical regulator of the uterus during the WOR. Uterine ablation of Foxo1 using the progesterone progestone is an effective treatment for recurrent miscarriage and infertility.
Dengue is a neglected tropical disease caused by female Aedes mosquitoes. The severe forms of the disease are potentially fatal. Despite no effective control program being introduced and no changes in surveillance until 2010 when serological confirmation was mandated for case reporting, nationally reported cases have declined since 2002. This might be partially attributable to increased prevalence of immunity and reduction in mosquito breeding sites resulting from public awareness. However, there is conside
When introduced into a novel environment, mammals establish in it a preferred place marked by the highest number of visits and highest cumulative time spent in that place. The existence of highly organized behavior across the whole arena in reference to this so-called “home base” highlights important features of its organization. It might therefore be fruitful to search for other types of marked places in mouse exploratory behavior and examine their influence on overall behavior. Examination of path curvatu
Invasive infections by fungal pathogens cause more deaths than malaria worldwide. We found the ergoline compound NGx04 in an antifungal screen, with selectivity over mammalian cells. High-resolution chemogenomics identified the lipid transfer protein Sec14p as the target of the screening hit and compound-resistant mutations define the substrate binding pocket of this protein. In summary, we present genetic evidence supporting the identification of a novel antiviral starting point.High-content screening. Au
The treatment and control of schistosomiasis, an often neglected tropical disease that exacerbates poverty, depends on a single drug, praziquantel. However, despite the paucity of a concerted effort to develop novel drug-resistant parasites, a number of compounds have been identified by academia, such as the synthetic trioxolanes, the cysteine protease inhibitor K11777, alkylaminoalkanethiosulfuric acids, and mefloquine. Here, we report that the antimalarial drug of the genus S. mansoni, which is widely and widely used in the field of medicine, has been discovered to be a drug resistant parasite.
Podoconiosis is a non-filarial elephantiasis, which causes massive swelling of the lower legs. It was identified as a neglected tropical disease by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) in 2011. As part of a global mapping study, this study was conducted in Cameroon to map the distribution and burden of this disease. We used a multi‐stage sampling design with stratification of country by environmental risk of podoconia. All individuals of 15-years old or older in the village were surveyed house-to-house and in a village house to house, and all individuals who were 15‐years older than 15 years old at the time of their survey. Our study found that the population of Cameroon was significantly more affected than the national average.
Stem cells have an innate ability to occupy their stem cell niche, which in turn, is optimized to house stem cells. However, the mechanisms involved are poorly understood. In this study, we report that Notch signaling is increased with age in Drosophila female germline cells ( GSCs ), and this results in their removal from the niche. This is due to the increased adhesiveness of these cells, thereby out-competing their neighbors with higher levels of notch. Our findings reveal a novel role of NotCH signaling in the development of the disease-causing immune system.
The human herpesviruses ( HHVs ) are large, enveloped viruses with double-stranded DNA genomes. Based on sequence homology and cellular tropisms, they are divided into three families: alpha, beta, and gamma. These viruses complete productive ( lytic ) replication cycles in epithelial cells and establish life-long latency in sensory neurons. They cause recurrent and sometimes painful skin lesions and, in rare cases, meningitis. A functional complementation assay has further shown that the UL97 protein of hum, a protein that is known to play a role in the development of herpesviruses, has been shown to be a key player in this process.
Burkholderia pseudomallei, a Tier 1 Select Agent and the cause of melioidosis, is a Gram-negative bacillus present in the environment in many tropical countries. Defining the global pattern of B. pseudoma distribution underpins efforts to prevent infection, and is dependent upon robust environmental sampling methodology. Our objective was to review the literature on the detection and conduct of environmental Burkholder Pseudo-Proteus and propose international consensus guidelines for soil sampling. We found
Membrane fusion is a critical step for infectious entry of enveloped viruses into cells. A viral “fusion protein” facilitates this process, generally in response to molecular cues specific for the cellular compartment in which viral penetration occurs. For example, dengue and other flaviviruses penetrate from endosomes, following uptake by clathrin-mediated endocytosis. The fusion protein, known as E, is the principal external protein of the virion, and it is made as part of a polyprotein, prM ( precursor o ), that facilitates the process of viral entry into the cell.
Cholera is still a global health concern. Recent outbreaks, including Haiti and Yemen, have highlighted the need to control the spread of antimicrobial resistance ( AMR ), which can rapidly induce high death tolls by overwhelming the capacity of health facilities, especially in remote areas or areas of civil unrest. Molecular epidemiology has become critical to determine the areas at highest risk for infections, to improve intervention measures such as vaccination campaigns but also to inform the developmen
Epithelial cells have distinct apico–basal membrane domains, each of which contains a unique complement of lipids and proteins to regionalize cellular functions. Intracellular junctions separate the apical from basolateral domains and mediate cell–cell adhesion and selective permeability within the monolayer. Although the mechanisms that specify epithelial polarity have been a topic of great interest in recent years, there are still many open questions about how this cell architecture is established and mai
Leishmania is an unicellular digenetic parasite causative of several devastating zoonotic diseases in poor and developing countries. It can survive in diverse environments from the sand fly vector to the mammalian host ( amastigotes ) where temperature, pH and other conditions are extremely different. Once the disease is acquired several clinical forms can be manifested. The disease manifests as organ swelling ( specifically targeting liver, spleen and bone marrow ) and may be deadly if left untr
Visceral leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania donovani is a major health problem in Ethiopia. Parasites in disparate regions are transmitted by different vectors, and cluster in distinctive genotypes. Recently isolated strains from VL and HIV-VL co-infected patients in north and south Ethiopia were characterized as part of a longitudinal study. Sixty-three strains were examined by polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) targeting three regions: internal transcribed spacer 1 ( ITS1 ), cysteine protease B ( cpb ) and intracellular DNA-binding protein ( CPB ). In addition to the three region-specific PCR targets, we were also able to identify three distinct regions of the virus that are associated with the infection.
Recombinant HIV-1 genomes contribute significantly to the diversity of variants within the HIV/AIDS pandemic. It is assumed that some of these mosaic genomes may have novel properties that have led to their prevalence, particularly in the case of the circulating recombinant forms ( CRFs ). To test this hypothesis, we generate a probabilistic model for the copy-choice recombination process. We find that the observed frequencies of inter-subtype recombinants are predicted accurately by our model. This observa
Computational modeling plays an important role in modern neuroscience research. Much previous research has relied on statistical methods, separately, to address two problems that are actually interdependent. First, given a particular computational model, Bayesian hierarchical techniques have been used to estimate individual variation in parameters over a population of subjects, leveraging their population-level distributions. Second, candidate models are themselves compared, and individual variations in the model’s parameters are itself compared. In this paper, we show that candidate computational models can be compared to each other and that individual differences in their parameter distributions are directly correlated to the candidate model.
The mammalian brainstem plays a crucial role in the regulation of many vital functions through a complex system of reflex arcs and relays information to higher brain centers through interconnected neuronal circuits. During development, the hindbrain becomes subdivided along the antero-posterior ( A-P ) axis into serially repeated, spatially segregated modules of progenitor cells. The rhombomeres and their associated Hox genes are responsible for the assembly of distinct functionally segregated sub-circuits.
The marine bacterium Saccharophagus degradans ( Sde 2-40 ) is emerging as a vanguard of a recently discovered group of marine and estuarine bacteria that recycles complex polysaccharides. We report its complete genome sequence, analysis of which identifies an unusually large number of enzymes that degrade >10 complexes. Not only is this an extraordinary range of catabolic capability, but many of the enzymes exhibit unusual architecture including novel combinations of catalytic and substrate-binding modules. The
Japanese Encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is a zoonotic flavivirus that represents the most significant etiology of childhood viral neurological infections throughout the Asia. In this study, we used Culex ( Cx. ) mosquitoes from China as an in vivo mosquito model to explore if mosquitoes played a potential role in genotype shift. We found that C. pipiens mosquitoes were competent vector for both GI and GIII Jev infection, with similar infection rates, growth kinetics, dissemination rate and transmission rate, sh
Dengue infection has been identified as the fastest spreading mosquito-borne viral disease, which affects people living in the tropical and subtropical countries. Malaysia had large outbreaks in recent years. This review aims to study the epidemiology, clinical characteristics and cause of deaths on fatal cases nationwide for 2013 and 2014.
The quality and reproductive potential of a chosen mate is one of the most consequential decisions affecting an animal’s fitness and fitness. Mate choice is based on select external traits that determine attractiveness, although in some cases individuals present false signals to secure more or higher quality mates. We have previously shown that global manipulation of insulin signaling, a nutrient-sensing pathway governing investment in survival versus reproduction, affects female sexual attractiveness in the fruit fly. In this study, we show that the ability of an individual to obtain a mate that is better quality than the one that he or she already has is affected by global insulin manipulation.
The Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) epidemic in West Africa in 2013–2015 spread heterogeneously across the three hardest-hit countries Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, and the estimation of national transmission of the disease provides little information about local dynamics. In this study, we applied a statistical modelling approach to estimate the basic reproduction number ( R0 ) for each affected district and each country using weekly incident case numbers. We estimated the epidemic growth rates during the 
What factors determine a protein's rate of evolution are actively debated. Especially unclear is the relative role of intrinsic factors of present-day proteins versus historical factors such as protein age. Here we use a large set of one-to-one orthologs between human and mouse proteins, with mapped PDB structures. We report that previously observed structural correlations also hold within each age group – including relationships between solvent accessibility, designabililty, and evolutionary rates. However
The developmental plasticity of early embryos and embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) requires the repression of cell-type specific genes. Polycomb repressive complex 2 ( PRC2 ) trimethylates lysine 27 of histone H3 to regulate gene expression during diverse biological transitions in development, differentiation, and cancer. In this study, we show that polycomb-like 3 ( Pcl3 ) is a component of the core components of PR2 that promotes ESC self-renewal. Using mass spectrometry and chromatin immunoprecipitation and using a combination of high-throughput imaging techniques and the use of a large-scale chromatographic approach to study the molecular basis of this process, our results demonstrate that the PRP2 core component is involved in the development and differentiation of ESC cells.
Animals modify their chemosensory behavior depending on their feeding-state, which allows them, for instance, to optimize their food-search strategy. This form of plasticity in chemoreceptor gene expression is observed across phyla, but the mechanisms essential for these expression changes remain poorly characterized. Here, we show that the expression levels of a feeding state-dependent gene, srh-234, in the sensory neuron of Caenorhabditis elegans is regulated via the MEF-2 transcription factor. We identif
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a destructive skin condition caused by infection with the environmental bacterium, Mycobacterium Ulcerans. The mode of transmission of M. ulcers is not completely understood, but several studies have explored the role of biting insects. In this study, we tested for an association between the detection and the risk of BU disease in mosquitoes in an endemic area of southeastern Australia. Adult mosquitoes were trapped in seven towns on the Bellarine Peninsula in Victoria, Australia, fro
Myelin is an essential component of the nervous tissue of higher vertebrates. It is produced by oligodendrocytes, while in the peripheral nervous system ( PNS ) this function is achieved by Schwann cells. Myelination is completed within a relatively short period of time during mammalian development and requires a high rate of production and transport of different kinds of molecules, mostly proteins and lipids. In adult life, the maintenance of functional myelin sheaths requires careful balance of de novo s
Microarray gene expression signatures hold great promise to improve diagnosis and prognosis of disease. However, current documentation standards of such signatures do not allow for an unambiguous application to study-external patients. This hinders independent evaluation, effectively delaying the use of signatures in clinical practice. To address the signature documentation problem, we analyzed eight publicly available clinical microarray studies. We show that even the exact quantitative specification of a signature is not available in any of these studies, and that the precise specification is difficult to obtain in a clinical setting.
Bacterial amyloid fibrils secreted by Enterobacteriaceae mediate host cell adhesion and contribute to biofilm formation, thereby promoting bacterial resistance to environmental stressors. Here, we present crystal structures of the major curli subunit, CsgA, revealing steric zipper-like structures that are structurally and biophysically similar to those found in human pathological Amyloids. D-enantiomeric peptides, originally developed to interfere with Alzheimer’s disease-associated neurofilms, inhibited th
Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is a vector-borne disease that is endemic in most of Asia, with high case fatality rates and often significant neurologic sequelae among survivors. To support consideration of JE vaccine for introduction into the national schedule in the Philippines, we conducted a systematic literature review and summarized data from 2011 to 2014 in four databases and one library. We identified 29 published reports and presentations, 18 reports of clinical cases, and 8 animal studies ( i
The evolutionary origins of genetic robustness are still under debate: it may arise as a consequence of requirements imposed by varying environmental conditions, or directly due to an adaptive selection in favor of genes that allow a species to endure genetic perturbations. Stratifying the individual effects of each origin requires one to study the pertaining evolutionary forces across many species under diverse conditions. Here, we conduct the first large-scale computational study charting the level of metabolism in a wide range of species. We show that it is possible to determine the evolutionary origin of the most robustly maintained genetic system in the world.
Schistosoma infection is associated with immune modulation that can influence responses to many viral or bacterial pathogens. Vaccine responses may be impaired in S. mansoni-infected individuals. In Entebbe, among infants immunised against measles at age nine months, only 75% had “protective” antibody levels. Here we report findings of a study on the association between immunogenicity to catch-up measles immunisation among pre-school children and the effect of praziquantel treatment on measles vaccine respo
The evolution of bacterial populations has recently become considerably better understood due to large-scale sequencing of population samples. It has become clear that DNA sequences from a multitude of genes, as well as a broad sample coverage of a target population, are needed to obtain a relatively unbiased view of its genetic structure and the patterns of ancestry connected to the strains. However, the traditional statistical methods for evolutionary inference, such as phylogenetic analysis are not well suited to this task.
Cortical rhythms have been thought to play crucial roles in our cognitive abilities. Rhythmic activity in the beta frequency band, around 20 Hz, has been reported in recent studies that focused on neural correlates of attention, indicating that top-down beta rhythms, generated in higher cognitive areas and delivered to earlier sensory areas, can support attentional gain modulation. To elucidate functional roles of alpha rhythms and underlying mechanisms, we built a computational model of sensory cortical ar
Stochastic transmission dynamic models are especially useful for studying the early emergence of novel pathogens given the importance of chance events when the number of infectious individuals is small. However, methods for parameter estimation and prediction for these types of stochastic models remain limited. In this manuscript, we describe an alternative method for calibrating a general class of non-deterministic compartmental transmission dynamics models of epidemics. The proposed method uses a linear n ( n ), n-dimensional model of the dynamics of a population, and we show that this method can be used to calibrate a specific group of such models.
Every instant of perception depends on a cascade of brain processes calibrated to the history of sensory and decisional events. In the present work, we show that human visual perception is constantly shaped by two contrasting forces exerted by sensory adaptation and past decisions. We used multilevel modeling and cross-validation approaches to investigate the impact of previous stimuli and decisions on behavioral reports during adjustment and forced-choice tasks. Our results revealed that each perceptual re
Circadian rhythms are widespread in nature and help to maintain internal temporal order as well as anticipate daily environmental changes. They use self-sustained biochemical oscillators that generate oscillations at the molecular, physiological, and behavioral levels. The Clock–Cycle ( CLK–CYC ) heterodimer constitutes a key circadian transcription complex in Drosophila. CYC has a DNA-binding domain but lacks an activation domain. Previous experiments also indicate that most of the transcriptional activity is involved in the circadian clock–cycle, which is essential for the development of daily circadian rhythms. In this study, we show that the clock-cyclimer is key to the regulation of circadian rhythm.
Horizontally acquired genes typically function as autonomous units conferring new abilities when introduced into different species. However, we reasoned that proteins preexisting in an organism might constrain the functionality of a horizontally acquired gene product if it operates on an ancestral pathway. We now show how the vertically acquired pmrD protein can activate the ancestral PmrA/PmrB two-component system in Salmonella enterica but not in the closely related bacterium Escherichia coli. The E. coli
The differentiation of embryonic stem cells is initiated by a gradual loss of pluripotency-associated transcripts and induction of differentiation genes. Accordingly, the detection of differentially expressed genes at the early stages of the differentiation process could assist the identification of causal genes that either promote or inhibit differentiation. The previous methods of identifying genes by comparing different cell types would inevitably include a large portion of genes in which gene expression is expressed in the same cell type. In this study, we present a new method to identify the genes involved in either promoting or inhibiting differentiation, and we propose that this method could be used to detect the expression of specific genes early in differentiation processes.
Although the function of many genes is not known and their classification to pathways is scant, functional associations between genes are often inferred from large-scale omics data. Such data types—including protein–protein interactions and gene co-expression networks—are used to examine the interrelations of the implicated genes. Statistical significance is assessed by comparing the interconnectedness of mutated genes with that of random gene sets. We show that genes implicated through de novo sequence variants are more likely to be involved in the same pathway as a random set of genes that are mutated.
In an effort to prevent continued increases in obesity and diabetes, in January 2014, the Mexican government implemented an 8% tax on nonessential foods with energy density ≥275 kcal/100 g and a peso-per-liter tax of sugar-sweetened beverages ( SSBs ). Limited rigorous evaluations of food taxes exist worldwide. The objective of this study was to examine changes in volume of taxed and untaxed packaged food purchases in response to these taxes in the entire sample and stratified by socioeconomic status. We in
A common characteristic of collision-sensitive neurons is that they integrate information across a large part of the visual field. Here we present a biophysically plausible model of such neurons with η-like response properties, in which we assume that each information channel is noisy and has a response threshold. Then, an approximative power law is obtained as a result of pooling these information channels. We show that with this mechanism one can successfully predict many response characteristics of Lobula Giant Move.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is the third most common mycobacterial infection, after tuberculosis and leprosy. BU affects people of all ages and both sexes, but mostly children below 15 years of age. Effective BU control began in Cameroon in 2002. In this article, we describe the evolution, achievements and challenges of the national BU Control Programme ( NBUCP ) and make suggestions for scaling up the programme. We analysed collated data on BU from 2001 to 2014 and reviewed activity reports of BU-DTCs. The BU dete
The ability to correctly estimate the probability of one’s choices being correct is fundamental to optimally re-evaluate previous choices or to arbitrate between different decision strategies. Experimental evidence nonetheless suggests that this metacognitive process—confidence judgment- is susceptible to numerous biases. Here we investigate the effect of outcome valence ( gains or losses ) on confidence while participants learned stimulus-outcome associations by trial-and-error. In two experiments, we found that confidence was affected by the degree to which participants were confident in their decision-making abilities.
Alphaviruses are enveloped positive-strand RNA viruses with a 5′ capped and 3′ polyadenylated genome of approximately 11. 5 kb. They are capable of causing serious disease in humans and domestic animals, which can also spill over to infect humans with potentially lethal consequences. Among the four non-structural proteins, nsP3 is the least well understood. Nsp3 proteins of Semliki Forest ( SFV, Sindbis ( SINV ), and Chikungunya viruses all showed avid and SH3-dependent binding to amphiphysins, two related 
Chromoblastomycosis is one of the most frequent implantation mycoses found among rural populations. Clinically, the disease is characterized by pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia with epidermal microabscesses and dermal granulomata. The disease has a slow evolution, but finally may result in disfigurement of affected body sites. In Brazil the infection is observed in all states, with an estimated prevalence of 1/196 thousand inhabitants, and in some hyperendemic regions a considerably higher prevalence is no
The DNA damage response ( DDR ) is an essential signaling pathway that detects DNA lesions, which constantly occur upon either endogenous or exogenous assaults, and maintains genetic integrity. An infection by an invading pathogen is one such assault, but how bacteria impact the cellular DDR is poorly documented. Here, we report that infection with Listeria monocytogenes induces host DNA breaks. Strikingly, the signature response to these breaks is only moderately activated. We uncover the role of the liste
The human herpes simplex virus-1 and -2 are common pathogens of human diseases. Both host and viral factors are involved in HSV lytic infection, although detailed mechanisms remain elusive. By screening a chemical library of epigenetic regulation, we identified bromodomain-containing protein 4 ( BRD4 ) as a critical player in infection. We found that treatment with pan BD domain inhibitor enhanced both infection and replication. Using JQ1, a defined BD1 inhibitor, acts through BRd4 protein since knockdown o
Noma, or cancrum oris, has caused devastating gangrenous oral-lesions throughout human history. It is a complex disease which arises most often in young children who are malnourished, exposed to infectious diseases, and lack access to clean water and dental hygiene. Noma has not been prevalent in developed countries since the 20th century, with the exception of concentration camps in WWII. Several risk factors are thought to work together to increase the risk of developing the disease, including poor immune
The infectious cycle of Bacillus thuringiensis in the insect host is a powerful model to investigate the role of quorum sensing in natural conditions. It is tuned by communication systems regulators belonging to the RNPP family and directly regulated by re-internalized signaling peptides. One such regulator, NprR, acts as a transcription factor, regulating a set of genes involved in B. subtilis survival. Here, we demonstrate that the dimeric apo form of the protein negatively controls sporulation by preventing the infection of B. subtilais by prevent, a process known as bacillus spp., which is important for the development of new strategies to control the disease cycle.
Infection with HIV cannot currently be cured; however it can be controlled by combination treatment with multiple anti-retroviral drugs. Given different viral genotypes for virtually each individual patient, the question now arises which drug combination to use to achieve effective treatment. With the availability of viral data and clinical phenotypic data, it has become possible to create computational models able to predict an optimal treatment regimen for an individual. Current models are based only on s
We recently proposed an alternative mechanism, supported by several lines of data, which assumes that cells are made by a self-generated cycle. If chemoattractants are present, they modulate the cycl
The flea Yersinia pestis is transmitted by the bite of infected fleas, and two modes of transmission have been described: early-phase transmission ( EPT ) and biofilm-dependent ( BDT ). The results from different studies have not always been consistent. One complicating variable is the species of rodent blood used for the infectious blood meal. To gain insight into the mechanism of early phase transmission and the effect that host blood has on it, we fed bacteremic mouse, rat, guinea pig, or gerbil blood to a variety of animals. We fed the blood of the infected mouse or rat to the host and found that it had the same effect on the infection.
Our visual system not only yields perception with certainty, but it also allows us to make complex judgments very rapidly—a fact that places additional constraints on the population neural code. Previous studies have shown these correlations to be detrimental to the fidelity of population codes, or at best marginally favorable compared to independent codes. Here, we show that positive correlations can enhance coding performance by a simple mechanism: the probability of discrimination error can be suppressed, and we demonstrate that this effect is beneficial for the accuracy of our visual systems.
Vibrio cholerae is the cause of cholera, a severe watery diarrheal disease caused by toxigenic strains. Protection against cholaera is serogroup specific. The O-specific polysaccharide ( OSP ) antigen ( LPS ) is specific to the Osp. In this study, we describe a conjugate vaccine for choleera prepared via squaric acid chemistry from the oral O1 Inaba strain PIC018 and a recombinant heavy chain fragment of tetanus toxin ( oSP:rTTHc ). We assessed a range of vaccine doses based on the dosage of the vaccine ( 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 20 ) and the amount of each vaccine dose.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a chronic, debilitating vector-borne disease that affects about 68 million people in 73 countries in tropical and subtropical areas of Asia, Africa, the Western Pacific and some regions of the Americas. The disease is caused by the filarial parasites Wuchereria bancrofti, Brugia malayi and B. timori, which are transmitted by Culex, Anopheles and Mansonia mosquitoes. However, similar associations have not been demonstrated from other areas with contrasting levels of L. loa ( L. loas ), such as those found in the tropics and the western Pacific.
Positive-strand RNA ( +RNA ) viruses of eukaryotes replicate in the cytoplasm of infected host cells. Their replication complexes are commonly associated with modified host cell membranes. Membrane structures supporting viral RNA synthesis range from distinct spherular membrane invaginations to more elaborate webs of packed membranes and vesicles. Generally, their ultrastructure, morphogenesis, and exact role in viral replication remain to be defined. We have now applied electron tomography of cryofixed infinitesimally sensitive electron microscopy of electron-tomography to determine the structure and function of these structures.
The plant root is a specialized organ that allows uptake of both water and solutes from the soil environment, to support normal plant growth and development. A long held model to explain this regulation includes the function of the extracellular biopolymer suberin acting as a barrier to limit the apoplastic transport of water in the root. However, no direct genetic evidence supports this foundational model. Here we report on the cloning and characterization of one of these ionomics mutants ( esb1-1 ) ( origi ), which is the first to clone and characterize a mutant that has the ability to inhibit the uptake and uptake from soil environments.
The single photon response ( SPR ) in vertebrate phototransduction is regulated by the random number of phosphorylations, the catalytic activity and the sojourn time between steps. Because of this randomness the electrical responses are expected to be inherently variable. The mechanisms that confer to the SPR such a low variability are not completely understood. In this study, we use a spatio-temporal model of the photoresponse, interfaced with the bi
The dynamics of stochastic reaction networks within cells are inevitably modulated by factors considered extrinsic to the network such as the fluctuations in ribosome copy numbers for a gene regulatory network. While several recent studies demonstrate the importance of accounting for such extrinic components, their resulting models are typically hard to analyze. In this work we develop a general mathematical framework that allows to uncouple the reaction network from its dynamic environment b
Brain-machine interfaces ( BMI ) have the potential to enable motor function in individuals with neurological injury or disease. Many studies have used decoders such as Kalman filters and finding their parameters with closed-loop decoder adaptation ( CLDA ). However, current methods do not model the spikes directly, and hence may limit the processing time-scale of BMI control and adaptation. Therefore, a unified and systematic framework that can be used to perform all these manipulations does not exist.
Redundancies and correlations in the responses of sensory neurons may seem to waste neural resources, but they can also carry cues about structured stimuli and may help the brain to correct for response errors. To investigate the effect of stimulus structure on redundancy in retina, we measured simultaneous responses from populations of retinal ganglion cells presented with natural and artificial stimuli that varied greatly in correlation structure; these stimuli are publicly available online. We found that we could find that the ability of the retina to sense and respond to stimuli in a way that is similar to that of a natural or artificial stimulus may be affected by redundancy.
Synthetic sickness and lethality are the most studied types of genetic interactions in yeast. However, only a small proportion of gene pairs have been tested for these interactions due to the lar
The BRCA Challenge is a long-term data-sharing project initiated within the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health ( GA4GH ) to aggregate data to support highly collaborative research activities. The goal is to generate an informed and current understanding of the impact of genetic variation on cancer risk across the iconic breast and ovarian cancer predisposition genes. Initially, reported variants available from public databases were integrated into a single, newly created site, www. brcaexchange. org. M
Malaria, caused by the apicomplexan parasite Plasmodium falciparum, still represents a major threat to human health and welfare and leads to about one million human deaths annually. In order to deal with high fluxes of reactive oxygen species and maintain redox regulatory processes and pathogenicity, the parasite depends upon an adequate balance. By systematically studying the subcellular localization of the major antioxidant and antioxidant regulatory proteins, we obtained the first complete map of Redox c
The discovery of intrinsically disordered proteins ( IDPs ) requires a reconsideration of the principles of protein-protein interactions, which have largely been examined using well-defined structured proteins. In the cell correct folding and binding of many proteins is essential for biological function, and the dominant descriptions of binding mechanisms are based on those described by Fischer: “lock and key” ( rigid binding ) and flexible binding. Electrostatic interactions are known to play important rol
Polycomb group ( PcG ) proteins are conserved chromatin factors that maintain silencing of key developmental genes outside of their expression domains. Recent genome-wide analyses showed a Polycomb ( PC ) distribution in the cell nucleus, and it has been recently shown that PC bodies form local and long-range spatial networks. Here, we studied the nuclear distribution of two PC proteins, PC and Polyhomeotic ( PH ), during fly embryogenesis as well as compare their behavior to that of the condensed fraction ( condensed ) fraction. We also compared the behavior of one PC protein, PolyHomeotic, in fly embryoogenesis.
Mutations of mtDNA are implicated in the aging process, but there is no universally accepted method for their accurate quantification. We have used next-generation sequencing of the human mitochondrial genome to study genome-wide mt DNA mutation load in liver of normally- and prematurely-aging mice. Mice that are homozygous for an allele expressing a proof-reading–deficient copy of a mitochondrial DNA polymerase have 10-times-higher point mutation loads than their wildtype siblings. In addition, we 
The anaerobic bacterium Fusobacterium nucleatum uses glutamate decarboxylation to generate a transmembrane gradient of Na+. Here, we demonstrate that this ion-motive force is directly coupled to ATP synthesis, via an F1Fo-ATP synthase shared by other human pathogens. Molecular modeling and free-energy simulations of the enzyme, the c-ring, indicate a novel ion coupling mechanism in ATP synthases. Consistently, activity measurements showed that the C11 ring, either membrane-embedded or isolated, is sensitiv
T cell receptor ( TCR ) recognition of foreign peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex ( pMHC ) molecules on the surface of antigen presenting cells is a key event in the initiation of adaptive cellular immunity to pathogens and tumors. However, less is known about the influence of T receptor/mHC interaction parameters on T cells responses in vivo. Here, we examin
The fungus Nectria haematococca is a member of a group of >50 species known as the “Fusarium solani species complex”. Members of this complex have diverse biological properties including the ability to cause disease on >100 genera of plants and opportunistic infections in humans. The current research analyzed one of the most extensively studied fungi, N. haemaatiolca mating population VI ( MPVI ). Several genes controlling gene expansion in this species are located on supernumerary chromosomes. Many genes control gene expansions in N. haemeatolca Mapp ( Optical mapp
Pseudorabies virus ( PRV; suid herpesvirus 1 ) is a veterinary pathogen, widely used as a neuroanatomical tracing tool, and related to the human alpha herpesviruses varicella-zoster virus and herpes simplex virus 1 and 2 ( HSV-1 & -2 ). Transport and egress of newly assembled particles from infected cells are a highly dynamic process involving the host secretory pathway working in concert with viral components. We developed a live-cell fluorescence microscopy method to visualize the final transport and exoc
Enterobius vermicularis ( human pinworm ) is the most common parasite encountered in developed countries, and it has been suggested as a good candidate for testing the link between the “hygiene hypothesis” and disease. However, a large population cohort study collecting data of mebendazole prescriptions and chronic inflammatory diseases in Denmark showed that childhood exposure to parasites might have protective effects against th
Identifying the loci underlying quantitative phenotypes is among the central challenges in genetics. The current quantitative genetics paradigm is based on the assumption of additive gene action, despite an increasing body of evidence showing that non-additive effects are crucial to many, if not most, biological systems. Here, we examined the genetics of Arabidopsis thaliana root length and found that the genomic narrow-sense heritability for this trait in the examined population was statistically zero. Thi
Inherited mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) mutations have emerged as a common cause of inherited metabolic disease, affecting 1 in 10, 000 of the population. Many of these variants have recurred several times in different populations and on diverse haplogroup backgrounds, but it is not clear whether this is limited to a handful of examples or is a more general phenomenon. To address this, we determined the characteristics of 30, 506 mt DNA sequences sampled globally. After performing several quality control step, and after performing a number of quality controls step ( Quality Control step ), our results show that 30% of all the samples sampled in the world are positive for the presence of a mutation.
In cancer metastasis, embryonic development, and wound healing, cells can coordinate their motion, leading to collective motility. To characterize these cell-cell interactions, which include contact inhibition of locomotion ( CIL ), micropatterned substrates are often used to restrict cell migration to linear, quasi-one-dimensional paths. In these assays, collisions between polarized cells occur frequently with only a few possible outcomes, such as cells reversing direction, sticking to one another, or walking.
Thioredoxin ( Trx ) is a powerful and universal protein disulfide bond oxido-reductase with a very low redox potential. In the absence of a structured protein environment, it has become an important tool to explore the structural dynamics of proteins and their implications for function. Here, computational approaches have made profound contributions to the study of enzymatic reaction mechanisms in recent years, typically combining MD simulations and quantum-mechanical calculations. Molecular dynamics simula
People change their choices, usually in the direction of conformity, when they learn what others value. However, far from being fixed personality characteristics, tastes are plastic. They tend to align, for example, with those of others even if such conformity is not rewarded. We hypothesised that people can be uncertain about their tastes. People can thus learn about them by considering evidence, such as the preferences of relevant others, and then performing Bayesian updating. Temporal discounting coeffic
In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, filamentous growth is a complex differentiation response that occurs under specific environmental conditions. In response to nutrient limitation, yeast undergoes a highly regulated response in which changes in polarity, cell-cycle progression, and gene expression induce the formation of branched chains of interconnected and elongated filaments. An important question therefore is to understand how different pathway activities are coordinated during complex developmental processes.
Changes in gene expression have been hypothesized to play an important role in the evolution of divergent morphologies. To test this hypothesis in a model system, we examined differences in fruiting body morphology of five filamentous fungi, culturing them in their common garden environment, and profiling genome-wide expression at five developmental stages. Our evolutionary approach to finding relevant genes proved far more efficient than other gene deletion studies targeting whole genomes or gene families.
The schistosome egg represents an attractive developmental stage at which to target transgenes because of the high ratio of germ to somatic cells, because the transgene might be propagated and amplified by infecting snails with the miracidia hatched from treated eggs, and because eggs can be readily obtained from experimentally infected rodents. In this study we investigated the utility of square wave electroporation to deliver transgenicices and other macromolecules including fluorescent ( Cy3 ) short interference ( si ). We found that the square-wave electrospectation of light on the surface of an egg can deliver a large number of proteins including proteins, including small molecules including short-interference ( Si ), to the egg.
In the cellular environment, biological processes often involve large assemblies of macromolecules, such as ribosome complex in protein synthesis, assembly of virus capsid, and chaperone systems assisting protein folding. Understanding how signaling communications are transmitted and the dynamics of such allosteric communications in these biological nanomachines at multiple time scale is an important problem. In this study, we develop a novel approach called Perturbation-based Markovian Transmission ( PMT ), which is based on the use of a new approach for the transmission of signals from the cell to the environment.
Fungal lectins play an important role in the defense against predators, parasites and pathogens due to their ability to recognize specific carbohydrate signatures displayed on the cell surfaces of these organisms. Examples of the former type are bacterial toxins directed against bacterivores ( Bacillus thuringiensis crystal toxins ) and fungal mucosal pathogens ( RegIIIγ [3] and galectin-3 [4], respectively ). The effector role of all these toxins is based on their toxicity towards the predator or pa
The existence of long-lived reservoirs of latently infected CD4+ T cells is the major barrier to curing HIV, and has been extensively studied in this light. However, the effect of these reservoirs on the evolutionary dynamics of the virus has received little attention. Here, we present a within-host quasispecies model that incorporates a latent reservoir, which we then nest into an epidemiological model of HIV dynamics. We find that the presence of latent reservoirs can severely delay the evolution of inter
Many viruses encode proteins whose major function is to evade or disable the host T cell response. Nevertheless, most viruses are readily detected by host immune cells, and induce relatively strong immune responses. Herein, we employ transgenic CD4+ and CD8+ T cells as sensors to evaluate in vitro and in vivo antigen presentation by coxsackievirus B3 ( CVB3 ). We show that this virus almost completely completely inhibits the presentation of MHC class I epitopes derived from lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus ( LCMV ), which is the causative agent of lymphocarcinoma, a disease that is caused by the immune system of the human lymphocyte.
Leprosy Type 1 reactions are a major cause of nerve damage and the preventable disability that results. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of three days of high dose ( 1 g ) intravenous methylprednisolone ( MP ) at the start of prednisolemic therapy in leprosy type 1 reaction and nerve function impairment. Forty-two individuals were randomised to receive either high-dose IV MP ( n ='20 ) or oral-dietary ( i. e. not taking corticosteroids ). There were no significant differences in the rate of the disease that was caused by the presence of a large number of individuals who were randomlyised in a group of people who had no treatment options.
CD8 T cells play a crucial role in the control of viral infection. While several lines of evidence indicate that HIV-specific CD4+CD25highFoxP3+ T cell ( Treg ) exert differential effects on CD8 subsets, and maintain the memory / effector T-cell balance, at least in part through the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway. Here we show that in conditions of chronic HIV infection, the ultimate failure to contain generalized HIV–associated immune activation is a joint result of intrinsic impairment of CDreg function and decrease. We demonstrate that, in a condition of acute and chronic infection of the human immune system ( acute, chronic, or acute infection ), a failure of generalized viral-associated T–cell–mediated immune response is caused by the loss of a CD-8 subunit, which is responsible for maintaining the balance of memory and effectors, as well as maintaining memory/memory balance.
Lymphatic filariasis is considered as a major obstacle to economic development in endemic countries and identified as the second leading cause of permanent and long-term disability. Parasites possibly accomplish this by adopting various immunomodulatory strategies, which include release of glutathione-S-transferases ( GSTs ) that counteract the oxidative free radicals produced by the host. However, vaccine potential of GST has not been evaluated before. In the present study, the GST gene was cloned from the
CRISPR-Cas9 technologies have transformed genome-editing of experimental organisms and have immense therapeutic potential. However, concerns remain over the potential for off-target effects. Recent studies have addressed these concerns using whole-genome sequencing ( WGS ) of gene-edited embryos or animals to search for de novo mutations ( DNMs ), which may represent candidate changes introduced by poor editing fidelity. In this study, we used a trio design and whole genome sequenced 8 parents and 19 embryos to explore for possible candidate deletions introduced in the absence of the deletion.
The stomatal pores are located on the plant leaf epidermis and regulate CO2 uptake for photosynthesis and the loss of water by transpiration. Blue light is one of the environmental signals that regulates the green/UV-A light-absorbing cryptochromes and phototropins. The signal transduction cascades that link the perception of light to the response are still largely unknown. Here, we report two new players, Hypersensitive to Red and Blue 1 ( HRB1 ) and Protein Phosphatase 7 ( PP7 ), and their genetic and biochannels.
In eukaryotes, RNA polymerase II ( PolII ) dependent gene expression requires accessory factors termed transcriptional coregulators. The Mediator is a multisubunit complex that, at the minimum, serves a critical linking function between regulatory factors and the transcription initiation machinery. However, it is unclear whether individual components within the same regulatory complex can exert such separable effects. Here, we show that the Caenorhabditis elegans mediator subunit MDT-15 displays a broader s
In order for an animal to be able to navigate through space, remember its route, find shortcuts, and so forth, it must have a fairly sophisticated internal representation of the spatial environment. This internal map is made possible by the activity of pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus known as place cells. These neurons are so named because of their striking spatial selectivity: they fire a series of action potentials in different, discrete regions of a space. Each region, referred to as that cell's “pl
The current model of hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) production involves the assembly of virions on or near the surface of lipid droplets, envelopment at the ER in association with components of VLDL synthesis, and egress via the secretory pathway. However, the cellular requirements for and a mechanistic understanding of this process are incomplete at best. In this study, we combined an RNA interference ( RNAi ) analysis of host factors for infectious viral secretion with the development of live cell imaging of t
Genetic alterations occur in cancers and play important roles in pathogenesis. A common cancer-promoting mechanism is the homozygous loss of a tumor suppressor gene, for example Tp53. Loss of the expressed parental allele produces a functionally nullizygous state, and the parental source is not known to influence the cancer phenotype. The imprinting mechanism modulates gene expression in a manner that defies Mendelian predictions. To identify mechanisms that are commonly altered in Nf1-mediated tumorigenesi
Learning to predict threat from environmental cues is a fundamental skill in changing environments. This aversive learning process is exemplified by Pavlovian threat conditioning ( also termed fear conditioning ) in which the contingent presentation of predictive cues ( conditioned stimuli, CS ) engages a process of associative learning. However, different computational models give rise to different and partly opposing predictions for the trial-by-trial dynamics of learning, for example expressed in the act
The septum initiation network ( SIN ) plays an essential role in fungal cytokinesis/septation and conidiation for asexual reproduction, while the mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) pathway depends on successive signaling cascade phosphorylation to sense and respond to stress and environmental factors. In this study, a SepH suppressor–PomA in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans is identified as a negative regulator of the sIN and the high-osmolarity glycerol ( HOG ) signaling pathways. PomA is a member of an inhibitor-defector family that is known to be negatively regulated of both the septic initiation and hOG pathways, and is associated with a strong negative response to environmental stimuli.
Tegumentary Leishmaniasis ( TL ) is endemic in Latin America, and Brazil contributes approximately 20 thousand cases per year. The pathogenesis of TL, however, is still not fully understood. Clinical manifestations vary from cutaneous ( CL ) to more severe outcomes, such as disseminated ( DL ), mucosal ( ML ) and diffuse ( DCL ). Many factors have been associated with the severity of the disease and the development of lesions. In the present study, 156 patients who attended Rondonia's Hospital of Tropical M
Streptococcus pneumoniae infection is a leading cause of bacterial pneumonia, sepsis and meningitis and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. Type I interferon ( IFN-I ), whose contribution to antiviral and intracellular bacterial immunity is well established, is also elicited during pneumococcal infection, yet its functional significance is not well defined. In this study, we show that IFNF- I plays an important role in the host defense against pneumobacterium by counteracting the transmigration of the bacterium, which is known to be a major contributor to the immune response against bacterial infection.
Neural networks with a single plastic layer employing reward modulated spike time dependent plasticity ( STDP ) are capable of learning simple foraging tasks. Here we demonstrate advanced pattern discrimination and continuous learning in a network of spiking neurons with multiple plastic layers and implemented multiple mechanisms for homeostatic regulation of synaptic efficacy. We found that addition of a hidden layer of neurons employing both rewarded and non-reward-modulated stimulation induced neurons th
During pregnancy, the ETS transcription factor ELF5 establishes the milk-secreting alveolar cell lineage by driving a cell fate decision of the mammary luminal progenitor cell. In breast cancer, this decision is driven by a key transcriptional determinant of tumor subtype and has been implicated in the development of insensitivity to anti-estrogen therapy. We have used our inducible mouse model of breast tumor virus-Polyoma Middle T ( MMTV-PyMT ) to investigate the roles played by the tumor-derived suppress
Chromatin loops, which can be characterized by three factors—connection pattern, distance between regulatory elements, and communication form, play an important role in determining the level of cell-to-cell variability in gene expression. These quantitative experiments call for a corresponding modeling effect that addresses the question of how changes in these factors affect variability at the expression level in a systematic rather than case-by-case fashion. In this paper, we make such an effort, based on 
Metabolic engineering increasingly depends upon RNA technology to customly rewire the metabolism to maximize production. To this end, pure riboregulators allow dynamic gene repression without the need of a potentially burdensome coexpressed protein like typical Hfq binding small RNAs and clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats ( CRISPR ) technology. Despite this clear advantage, no clear general design principles are available to de novo develop repressing RNA. Here, to overcome this lack, we present a novel approach to repress RNA in the form of riborgulator, a ribozyme-based protein that can be used to bind small RNAAs to the ribosome.
Transient associations among neurons are thought to underlie memory and behavior. However, little is known about how such associations occur or how they can be identified. In this study we recorded ongoing local field potential activity at multiple sites within the cortex of awake monkeys and organotypic cultures of cortex. We show that when the composite activity of a local neuronal group exceeds a threshold, its activity pattern, as reflected in the LFP, occurs without distortion at other cortex sites via fast synapse. This is the first study to demonstrate that local activity patterns are not distorted at the same cortical sites in a single brain region.
Nuclear size correlates with cell size, but the mechanism by which this scaling is achieved is not known. Here we screen fission yeast gene deletion mutants to identify essential factors involved in this process. Our screen has identified 25 essential genes that alter nuclear size and our analysis has implicated RNA processing and LINC complexes in nuclear growth control. This study has revealed lower and more extreme higher nuclear sizes phenotypes and has also identified global cellular processes and spec
Deep brain stimulation ( DBS ) is an effective treatment for a variety of neurological disorders, including Parkinson’s disease and essential tremor ( ET ). The present generation of the technology involves manually tuning the parameters of stimulation, such as the pulse width, frequency and intensity, in an attempt to achieve the best treatment. A number of approaches have been proposed to deliver stimulation according to the ongoing symptoms or brain activity and have the potential to provide improvements
Schistosomiasis remains one of the most common endemic parasitic diseases affecting over 230 million people worlwide. The fresh water snails of genus Biomphalaria act as the parasite´s intermediate host which are able to produce a constant output of hundreds or even thousands of cercariae for months. In addition to health education, safe water supplies, adequate sanitation and environmental management, a snail control program would also reduce transmission of human infection and is necessary for the interru
Dengue is a major public health problem affecting more than half of the world’s population living in tropical and subtropical regions. The disease is estimated to place heavy socio-economic burden on households, health care systems, and governments, particularly during outbreaks. However, country-specific reliable estimates of burden of disease and cost data are limited. We conducted a costing analysis in Colombo district, which is located in the most heavily urbanized Western province in Sri Lanka, during a Dengue outbreak in 2013-2014. This study provides a cost-benefit analysis to determine the impact of a large number of household- and health-care systems-related costs on the health of households and healthcare systems.
The relative contributions to modern European populations of Paleolithic hunter-gatherers and Neolithic farmers from the Near East have been intensely debated since the first genetic data became available. Here we show that the geographical distribution of diversity within a Y-chromosomal lineage is best explained by the spread from a single source in Anatolia to the western fringe of Europe. Taken together with the evidence on the origins of many other European haplogroups, this indicates that most Europea
It has recently been suggested that movement variability directly increases the speed of motor learning. Here we use computational modeling to show that variability can have a broad range of effects on learning, both negative and positive. Experimentally, we also find contributing and decelerating effects. Lastly, through a meta-analysis of published papers, our results confirm that motor variability has no statistical relation with learning rate.
The NF-κB family of inducible transcription factors has emerged as a major player in immune response, survival, and proliferation by regulating the transcription of various genes involved in these processes. In vertebrates, the family is comprised of five members, namely RelA ( p65 ), RelB, c-Rel, p50 and p52, which are responsible for DNA binding and its cognate κB sites on the promoter/enhancer regions of DNA. The relA:CBP/p300 complex is composed of two components—first, DNA bound domain of Rela interact
Gene set analysis methods, which consider predefined groups of genes in the analysis of genomic data, have been successfully applied for analyzing gene expression data in cross-sectional studies. In the present paper, we propose the implementation of a hypothesis driven method that directly tests the time-course significance of pre- and post-ATI gene sets. It relies on the use of linear mixed effect models, a very useful and well established statistical tool. By using all available repeated measures, it pro
Plasmodium vivax, the causative agent of malaria, is far less developed than that of falciparum, representing a barrier to rational strategies for control and elimination. Here we present the first systematic effort to map the global endemicity of this hitherto neglected parasite. We first updated to the year 2010 our earlier estimate of the geographical limits of P. vavax transmission. Within areas of stable transmission, an assembly of 9, 970 geopositioned parasite rate surveys collected from 1985 to 2010, including 9, 970 geo-phosphostromised parasite rates collected between 1985 and 2010
Staphylococcus aureus is the leading cause of skin and soft tissue infections ( SSTIs ) in humans and the treatment of these infections has become increasingly difficult due to the emergence of antibiotic resistance. The cell wall-anchored protein clumping factor B ( ClfB ) has previously been shown to facilitate the colonization of host cells and tissues through high affinity interactions with the cornified envelope in the anterior nares. However, the role of this protein during S. skin infection has never
Pre-exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP ) for high-risk individuals is one of the five ‘pillars’ set by UNAIDS to achieve a drastic reduction in HIV infections. The aim is to reduce the number of new infections to approximately 500, 000 by 2020. However, pre-clinical testing may not guide candidate selection, since it often fails to translate into clinical efficacy. Therefore, quantifying drug efficacy in the clinic is ethically problematic and requires to conduct long ( years ) and large ( N>1000 individuals ) tri
Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) is an important human pathogen that can cause severe liver diseases including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. It belongs to the flavivirus family and has a 9. 6 Kb positive-stranded RNA genome. This genome encodes a polyprotein with a length of slightly more than 3, 000 amino acids. Autophagy occurs at a basal level in cells during normal conditions and is important for maintaining cellular homeostasis. In this report, we investigated the mechanism of the induction of Rubic, a virus that is known to cause liver disease in humans. We found that, in the presence of a small number of amino acid residues, the protein is able to be activated by the cell's autophagies.
Cyclins comprise a family of highly conserved proteins and exert their crucial roles by activating cyclin-dependent kinases ( CDKs ). The founding members of Cyclin A and B were discovered to be oscillated in their protein levels during the cell cycle, which is required to activate the Cyclins/CDK1, and consequently regulate transcription and other cellular processes. However, there are also several "orphan" cyclins for which no interacting partners have been yet identified. In this study, we used Ccnyl1 gen as a model to investigate the role of the founding member of this family in the regulation of transcription, transcriptional and transcription factors. We found that the first two members to oscillate were found to regulate the levels of their proteins in a manner that is essential for the activation of these two proteins. Furthermore, the second member, B, also oscillates in its protein level in this process. These findings have important implications for understanding the mechanisms by which these proteins interact with each other.
Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) are global causes of diarrhea and hemolytic uremic syndrome resulting from toxin-mediated microvascular endothelial injury in the kidneys and the brain. The toxin is a member of the RTX ( repeats-in-toxin ) family, a family of virulence factors, which plausibly play a role in pathogenesis of HUS. In this study, we demonstrate that the toxin exists as a free, soluble toxin and is associated with outer membrane vesicles ( OMVs ) released during growth. Whereas the f
The elongation phase of transcription is a point of regulation for many genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II ( RNAPII ) in eukaryotes, but the precise functions of individual modifications in transcription initiation are poorly understood. Here we reveal bidirectional communication between H2Bub1 and Cdk9, the ortholog of metazoan positive transcription elongating factor b ( P-TEFb ), in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. We show that lowering the activity or preventing phosphorylation of its su
Yellow fever virus ( YFV ) remains the most feared of epidemic diseases from the 15th to 19th centuries, when large scale outbreaks in port cities of North and South America, Africa, and Europe caused devastating mortality and helped to shape the expansion of settlements and colonial powers. To determine the evolutionary history of this important reemerging pathogen, we performed a phylogenetic analysis of the largest viral data set compiled to date, representing the prM/E gene region from 133 viral isolates. We performed an evolutionary analysis to determine how the evolution of Yellow Fever virus has changed over the last century.
The pathogenesis of bacterial diseases generally involves multiple stages ( entry, establishment, invasion, exit ) that often begin with the colonization of host surfaces. For organisms without an environmental reservoir, their continued success requires proliferation within their obligate host and transmission to new susceptible hosts. In order to better understand the mechanisms responsible for protection, we studied a virulent isolate of the leading bacterial pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae in an infan
Phlebotomus orientalis is a vector of Leishmania donovani, the causative agent of life-threatening visceral leishmaniasis spread in Eastern Africa. During blood-feeding, sand fly females salivate into the skin of the host. Sand fly saliva contains a large variety of proteins, some of which elicit specific antibody responses in the bitten hosts. To evaluate the exposure of human populations from disease endemic areas, we tested the antibody reactions of volunteers' sera against recombinant P. orientis salive. We found that the human population was more exposed to the vaccine than the infected population.
IncC conjugative plasmids and Salmonella genomic island 1 ( SGI1 ) are frequently associated with multidrug resistance of clinical isolates of pathogenic Enterobacteriaceae, including Gram-negative and most Gram–positive bacteria. In this study, we investigated the role of three genes, traNS and traHGS, coding for distant homologs of the predicted mating pore subunits TraNC, TraHC and TraGC, respectively, encoded by A/C Plasmid. Mating experiments using combinations of deletion mutants and complementation a were carried out using a combination of a deletion mutant and a pair of complements a. We found that these two genes were involved in the expression of distant sequences of these genes.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae polo-like kinase Cdc5 promotes adaptation to the DNA damage checkpoint, in addition to its numerous roles in mitotic progression. In this study, we overexpressed CDC5 from the GAL1 promoter in damaged cells and examined key steps in checkpoint activation individually. We found that the checkpoint steps leading to Rad53 activation, including checkpoint sensor localization, Mec1-phosphorylation of Rad9, and formation of the Rad 9-Rad53 complex, remained mostly unaffected. However, the process of activating the activation complex remained largely unaffected in the absence of checkpoint-related steps.
Many pathological conditions, such as seizures, stroke, and spreading depression, are associated with substantial changes in ion concentrations in the extracellular space ( ECS ) of the brain. Understanding the mechanisms that govern these changes may be a prerequisite for understanding such pathologies. To estimate the transport of ions due to electrodiffusive effects, one must keep track of both the ion concentration and the electric potential simultaneously in all relevant regions. Although this is curre
A budget proposal to stop the U. S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) funding in surveillance and research for mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus has the potential to leave the country ill-prepared to handle new emerging diseases and manage existing ones. In order to demonstrate the consequences of such a measure, if implemented, we evaluated the impact of delayed control responses ( a likely scenario emerging from the proposed CDC budget cut ) in an economically dev
Dengue is an emerging cause of acute febrile illness ( AFI ) worldwide with an estimated ~400 million symptomatic cases occurring annually in over 100 countries. Since serologic cross-reactions are expected among flaviviruses, epidemiological studies have been facilitated by lack of reports of yellow fever and Japanese encephalitis, a single report of West Nile virus in a traveler from Spain [12], and t
Plant-parasitic nematodes are destructive pests causing losses of billions of dollars annually. An effective plant defence against pathogens relies on the recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) by surface-localised receptors. Extensive studies have been conducted to characterise the role of PTI in various models of plant-pathogen interactions. However, far less information is available pertaining to plant–nematode interactions in particular. In this study, we show that a plant proteinaceous ichthyosome, a component of the plant plant, is involved in the detection of a molecular pattern that is associated with the presence or absence of pathogens.
Miltefosine, an anti-cancer drug that has been successfully repositioned for treatment of Leishmania infections, has recently also shown promising effects against Schistosoma spp targeting all life cycle stages of the parasite. In the present study, we evaluated the in vitro effect of treating S. mansoni adult worm homogenate and anti schistomula infection antisera on exposure of worm surface antigens exposed to milte-fenosines. We found that these antigenic targets were fructose-1, 6 bisphosphate aldolase (Fructose 1, 6, 7, 8 ) and fructose 1 (6 bis-6, 5, 10 ), which are known to be important for the development of cancer-causing drugs.
In host-pathogen interactions, the struggle for iron may have major consequences on the outcome of the disease. To overcome the low solubility and bio-availability of iron, bacteria have evolved multiple systems to acquire iron from various sources such as heme, hemoglobin and ferritin. In the human opportunistic pathogen Bacillus cereus, a surface protein named IlsA ( Iron-regulated surface determinant ) is involved in iron acquisition from host iron. Here, we demonstrate that a bacterial protein acts as an iron-regulatory surface-determinant, and we show that it acts in the presence of a bacterium-host interaction.
Circadian clocks, which allow organisms to anticipate changes in day and night, are a fascinating example of biological rhythms. One of the most studied and best characterized models of circadian oscillations is the cyanobacterium S. elongatus. It is now known that it combines a protein synthesis cycle with a phosphorylation cycle, and in 2005 the latter was reconstituted in the test tube. Yet, it has remained an open question how the clock is driven thermodynamically. Here, we present a new mathematical model of a circadian clock in a laboratory experiment. We present the first mathematical mo
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is a major public health burden associated with about 600, 000 deaths annually and 350 million chronic carriers worldwide. Mitochondria serve as a platform for innate immune signaling and play indispensable role in cellular antiviral defense. In this study, we explored the role of parkin, a cytosolic RBR ubiquitin ligase protein linked with Parkinson’s disease, in mitochondria-mediated innate immunity signaling. Parkin interacts with MAVS and recruits the linear ubiquitsin assembly, which is essential for the ability of the cell to sense and respond to the presence of a virus in the mitochondrion.
T-cell receptors ( TCRs ) typically recognize antigens in the form of peptides or peptide-lipids bound to major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) molecules. A novel enteric T cell superantigen, Pseudomonas fluorescens, is encoded by a bacterial gene associated with Crohn's disease ( CD ). The I2 protein pfiT was identified as a genomic element of a novel bacterial protein that was selectively detected in active CD lesional colonic tissue, but not in healthy controls or inactive CD ileum. Serum antibody stu
Nanog is a principal pluripotency regulator exhibiting a disperse distribution within stem cell populations in vivo and in vitro. Allelic control of Nanog expression was reported recently in mouse embryonic stem cells. To better understand how this mode of regulation influences the observed heterogeneity of NANOG, we assembled a multiscale stochastic population balance equation ( PBE ) framework to investigate how the recently discovered regulation of allelic expression of the gene is sufficient to give rise to a large number of phenotypes that are heterogeneous in the presence of a single gene.
The costs and benefits of protein synthesis on organismal fitness are balanced through evolution. Expression of un-utilized protein ( that have no benefits in the current environment ) incurs a quantifiable fitness costs on cellular growth rates; however, the magnitude and variability of unused protein expression in natural settings is unknown, largely due to the challenge in determining environment-specific proteome activity. We address this challenge using absolute and global proteomics data combined with the ability to combine absolute, global and absolute proteomic data. Our study provides a quantitative and qualitative approach to determine the relative and magnitude of the observed differences in unused and unused expression, and we address these challenges by combining absolute data with global data and combining it with our own data sets.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2D ) is a major chronic disease that affects more than 300 million people worldwide. The greatest increase in the prevalence of this disease is likely to be in Asia, home to half of the world's population with 3 billion people. Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have identified a number of novel loci harboring common variants that are associated with an increased risk of type 2D. However, these studies have been conducted in populations of European descent, and these multi-ethnic populations have a higher risk for the disease than the European-American population, which has a high proportion of Europe's European population.
High-fidelity chromosome segregation ensures faithful transmission of genetic material to subsequent generations. This process is powered by the dynamic interactions of the centromere-kinetochore complex and the mitotic spindle. Microtubule organizing centers ( MTOCs ), microtubules fibers, and molecular motors contribute to the proper positioning and movement of cytoplasmic MTs. Among the plethora of +TIPs, Bim1, the EB1 homolog in yeast, localizes at the distal ends of cMTs and establishes contacts with t
Synonymous mutations continue to be filtered out from most large-scale cancer genome studies, but several lines of evidence suggest they can play driver roles in neoplastic disease. We investigated a case of an aggressive, apparently sporadic medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) harboring a somatic RET p. Cys634Arg mutation. A germ-line RET substitution had also been found but was considered clinically irrelevant because of its synonymous nature. Next generation sequencing ( NGS ) of the tumor tissues revealed that a mutation in a germ line RET mutation was not clinically relevant because it was synonymous with its non-synonymous nature, suggesting that it could play a role in the disease progression.
Metagenomic sequencing of patient samples is a very promising method for the diagnosis of human infections. However, complete and accurate characterization of the sequence, including identification of any pathogens, depends on the availability and quality of genomes for comparison. In this study, we have developed a bioinformatics system for eliminating contamination as well as low-complexity genomic sequen
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) remains a major health problem on the continent of Africa. There are recurrent sporadic outbreaks in the traditionally endemic areas in south-east Uganda, and continued spread to new unaffected areas. We evaluated the evolutionary dynamics underpinning the origin of new foci and the impact of host species on parasite genetic diversity in Uganda and southwestern Kenya in order to understand the extent of genetic exchange both within and between T. b. brucei ( Tbb ) strai and Tb. tbb ( B ) bruckei, a parasite that is transmitted between humans and other animals in Africa, as well as between the two species.
Thioredoxin-interacting protein ( TXNIP ) has multiple functions, including tumor suppression and involvement in cell proliferation and apoptosis. However, its role in the inflammatory process remains unclear. In this report, we demonstrate that Txnip−/− macrophages are significantly more susceptible to lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced endotoxic shock than wild-type mice. This susceptibility phenotype is due to increased S-nitrosylation of NLRP3, a key mediator of IL-1β-induced death. Furthermore, the inactivating protein is increased inactivation of an important cytokine that mediates the death of the host cell. We also show that this inactivity is associated with an increased susceptibility to the loss of a major inflammatory molecule known as LPA3.
Germline mutations in DNA repair genes are linked to tumor progression. Furthermore, failure in either activating a DNA damage checkpoint or repairing programmed meiotic double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) can impair chromosome segregation. Therefore, understanding the molecular basis for DNA replication response ( DDR ) and repair ( DSBR ) within the germline is of extreme importance. Here we define ZTF-8, a previously uncharacterized protein conserved from worms to humans, as a novel factor involved in the repa
During tissue development, multipotent progenitors differentiate into specific cell types in characteristic spatial and temporal patterns. We addressed the mechanism linking motor neuron ( MN ) identity and differentiation rate in the neural tube. Using single cell transcriptomics, we defined the transcriptional changes associated with the transition of neural progensitors into MNs. Reconstruction of gene expression dynamics from these data indicate that Olig2 represses expression of the Notch signaling pat
In mouse models of influenza viruses, T cells can confer broad protection against multiple viral subtypes when antibodies raised against a single subtype fail to do so. Here we use a translational nonhuman primate model to show that cross-reactive T cell responses play an important role in early clearance of infection with 2009 pandemic H1N1 influenza virus. To “prime” cellular immunity, we first infected 5 rhesus macaques with a seasonal human influenza isolate. These animals made detectable cellular and antibody responses to the virus, and we showed that these animals were able to protect against the influenza-causing virus in the absence of an influenza vaccine.
Q fever is the most widespread zoonosis that is caused by Coxiella burnetii. It is not only difficult to distinguish from other febrile diseases because of the lack of specific clinical manifestations in humans, but it is also hard to identify the disease in animals. Conventional serodiagnosis requires sera from the acute and convalescent stages of infection, which are unavailable at early diagnosis. Nested PCR and real-time PCR require equipment. In this study, we developed a Loop-Mediated Isothermal Ampli, a loop-mediated amothermal amplification that can be used to detect Q fever in the animal. We have developed an efficient and reliable method for the detection of this disease.
Cancer cells often display gene expression profiles resembling those of undifferentiated cells. The mechanisms controlling these expression programs have yet to be identified. Exploring transcriptional enhancers throughout hematopoietic cell development and derived cancers, we uncovered a novel class of regulatory epigenetic mutations. These epimutations are particularly enriched in a group of ES-specific enhancer ( ESSEs ), which are specific to certain tissues or cell types. We found that HEMSES are prone to the formation of a cell type that is genetically different from that of normal cells, such as the heart, liver, or pancreas.
Natural selection drives populations towards higher fitness ( i. e. reproductive success ), but crossing fitness valleys or plateaus may facilitate progress up a rugged fitness landscape involving epistasis. In this work, we investigate quantitatively the effect of subdividing an asexual population on the time it takes to cross a fitness valley or plateau. We focus on a generic and minimal model that includes only population subdivision into equivalent demes connected by global migration, and does not requi
Aedes aegypti is the primary mosquito vector for dengue, Zika, chikungunya and yellow fever viruses. Transmission of these viruses depends on their ability to infect, replicate and disseminate from several mosquito tissues. Since the virus is enveloped, viral replication, assembly and release occur on cellular membranes primed through the manipulation of host metabolism. Interference with this virus infection-induced meta
The simulation of action potentials ( APs ) and their propagation has been an integral part of the field of electrophysiology for over half a century. These “ionic” models have been derived almost exclusively from voltage clamp data from a variety of species, often recorded under conditions that are not physiological. Existing models are complex ( resulting in over parameterization ), and varied ( leading to dissimilar predictions ). In this paper, we develop a simple and parsimonious rabbit AP model that i
During the sexual cycle of Paramecium, assembly of the somatic genome includes the precise excision of tens of thousands of short, non-coding germline sequences ( Internal Eliminated Sequences or IESs ), each one flanked by two TA dinucleotides. It has been reported previously that these genome rearrangements are initiated by the introduction of developmentally programmed DNA double-strand breaks, which depend on the domesticated transposase PiggyMac. These DSBs all exhibit a characteristic geometry, with 4
Sudden death has been considered the main cause of death in patients with Chagas heart disease. Nevertheless, this information comes from a period before the introduction of drugs that changed the natural history of heart failure. Therefore, we sought to study the mode of mortality of patients in the REMADHE ( Repetitive Education at Six-Month Interventions ) trial. The primary end-point was all-cause death and sudden death mortality; 342 patients were analyzed and 185 ( 54. 1% ) died. Death occurred in 56.
Geminiviruses constitute a large group of plant viruses with single-stranded DNA genomes that may be organized either in single or double-component configuration. However, the NSP–NSP interaction does not fit into the elicitor–receptor model of resistance, and hence the molecular mechanism that links this antiviral response to receptor activation remains obscure. Here, we identified a ribosomal protein, rpL10A, as a specific partner and substrate of NIK1 that functions as an immediate downstream effector of the interaction with NIS1, a plant virus that encodes a protein that is involved in the binding of a receptor to the receptor. This protein is a target protein for the anti-viral defense system and is known to bind to receptors and activate them.
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is a thermal dimorphic pathogenic fungus that at environmental temperature grows as a mold producing conidia ( the infectious particle ). Once inhaled by the host, these fungal cells reach the lung alveoli were they interact with epithelial cells. At 37°C the transition to the redox balancing process is initiated. In this study, we have evaluated the role of alternative oxidase ( AOX ), an enzyme involved in the intracellular oxidation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) during 
The rodent hippocampus forms a neural representation of the local environment using a dual rate and position code: Each pyramidal neuron is active when an animal is located within a distinct location in space, and its mean firing rate within this location varies with contextual features like the color or shape of enclosing walls. A possible neural substrate for this memory mechanism is rate remapping, in which the spatial map of place cells encodes contextual information through firing rates variability. To
Entamoeba histolytica is a microaerophilic enteric protozoan parasite that causes amebic colitis and extra intestinal abscesses in millions of inhabitants of endemic areas of the world. It is now well established that most microbial and higher eukaryotic cells have the ability to cope with oxidative stress by altering global expression of antioxidants and other metabolic enzyme encoding genes at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. However, it is becoming increasingly acceptable that post–translational mecha is an important pathogen that is responsible for the accumulation of oxidative damage in the human body.
The tumor suppressor IKAROS is a transcription factor critical for hematopoietic cell fate and its dynamic expression pattern is required for proper differentiation. In collaboration with the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase ( NuRD ) complex, it promotes gene repression and activation. It remains to be clarified how this protein association is important for Cdk9/P-TEFb activation and thus, transcription elongation. Here, we demonstrate that the expression level of the Nu RD complex can be recruited to 
Bat rabies is an emerging disease of public health significance in the Americas. The Caribbean island of Trinidad experiences periodic outbreaks within the livestock population. We performed a Bayesian phylogenetic analysis to investigate the extent to which outbreaks are a result of in situ evolution versus importation of virus from the nearby South American mainland. Trinidadian RABV sequences were confirmed as bat variant and clustered with Desmodus rotundus ( vampire bat ) related sequences. They fell i
The mammalian cerebral cortex is divided into many functionally distinct areas. The emergence of these areas during neural development is dependent on the expression patterns of several genes. Along the anterior-posterior axis, gradients of Fgf8, Emx2, Pax6, Coup-tfi and Sp8 play a particularly strong role in specifying areal identity. However, our understanding of the regulatory interactions between these genes that lead to their confinement to particular spatial patterns is currently qualitative and incom
Polycomb group ( PcG ) proteins control organism development by regulating the expression of developmental genes. Transcriptional regulation is achieved, at least partly, through the PRC2-mediated methylation on lysine 27 of histone H2A ( H3K27 ) as well as by the ubiquitylation of the methyl-DNA binding protein, Bmi1. Although recent studies have revealed the genome-wide binding patterns of some of these proteins, there have been no reports describing the genomic localization of this mark. Using the recen
Pregnancy-induced noncoding RNA ( PINC ) and retinoblastoma-associated protein 46 ( RbAp46 ) are upregulated in alveolar cells of the mammary gland during pregnancy and persist in the regressed lobules following involution. However, it is unknown whether they are involved in maintaining this progenitor population. In the present study, we show that mPINC is enriched in luminal cells and that expression levels are significantly decreased during the transition from late pregnancy to early lactation. We also d
Intrinsic immunity constitutes the first line of defense against viral infection, as it relies on cellular proteins, known as restriction factors, to directly counteract viral replication. TRIM5α is one of these factors. It was originally identified as the protein responsible for HIV-1 restriction in rhesus macaque cells. However, it was later found to constitute a species-specific barrier to various retroviruses in other primates, including humans. In this study, we re-evaluated the involvement of PML duri, a member of the primate immune system, in the development of anti-viral drugs that block the replication of retrovirus-like viruses.
Protein structure alignment programs are designed to help better model protein structures in a variety of contexts. One approach used by many previous methods is aligned fragment pair chaining, where short structural fragments from all the proteins are aligned against each other optimally, and the final alignment chains these together in geometrically consistent ways. Here, we introduce the program Matt ( Multiple Alignment with Translations and Twists ), an algorithm that, in intermediate steps, allows for multiple alignment with translations, transpositions and transitions.
Both Greatwall and Ensa/ARPP19 are regulated by phosphorylation, but how GreatWall activity and the phosphatsases that control it and its substrates are poorly understood. To address these questions we applied a combination of mathematical modelling and experiments using phospho-specific antibodies. We demonstrate that the G2/M transition has multiple positive circu
The current AIDS pandemic is the result of genetically diverse viral subtypes and circulating recombinant forms ( CRFs ) of HIV-1, which account for a majority of infections worldwide. One aim for an HIV vaccine is to elicit neutralizing antibodies ( Nab ) that can limit replication and prevent establishment of a new infection. Thus, identifying the strengths and weaknesses of Nab during the early stages of natural infection could prove useful in achieving this goal. Here we demonstrate that viral escape re
The extent to which both positive and negative selection vary across different portions of the genome has wide-ranging implications for understanding genome function and the maintenance of genetic variation. Here, we sequenced whole genomes of 13 Capsella grandiflora individuals and quantify the amount of selection across their genomes. We find that selection is strong in coding regions but weak in most noncoding regions, with the exception of 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ). However, estimates of p ( p ) are not available, and we estimate that p is only slightly higher than p, suggesting that both negative and positive selection are strong and weak across the whole genome.
Epstein-Barr Virus ( EBV ) is a human tumor virus associated with various lymphoid and epithelial cell malignancies, including Burkitt’s lymphoma, nasopharyngeal carcinomas, and lymphoproliferative disorders in the immunosuppressed. In this study, we investigate how a viral-encoded non-DNA binding coactivator, EBNA2, can reprogram the target binding sites and functional cooperativity of two master regulators of B-cell fate, EBF1 and RBP-jκ. Previous studies suggest that these transcription factors are stati
The mosquito Aedes aegypti is the main mosquito vector of the four serotypes of dengue virus ( DENV ). Previous population genetic and vector competence studies have demonstrated substantial genetic structure and major differences in the ability to transmit the virus in a mosquito population in Mexico. Population genetic studies revealed that the Neovolcanic axis ( NVA ) with the Gulf of Mexico coast acts as a discrete barrier to gene flow. The mosquito populations in southern Veracruz State were genetically and functionally similar to those in other states, such as the United States, Mexico, and Canada.
The bacterial replication cycle is driven by the DnaA protein, which cycles between the active ATP-bound form and the inactive ADP-binding form. Initiation is thought to occur when enough ATP has accumulated. In this work we have performed cell cycle analysis of cells that contain a surplus of ATP and asked whether initiation then occurs earlier. It does not. Cells with more than a 50% increase in the concentration of the protein showed no changes in timing of replication. We also investigated the in vivo r
Oscillatory activity plays a critical role in regulating biological processes at levels ranging from subcellular, cellular, and network to the whole organism. We shed light on this issue by introducing a novel approach called partial Granger causality to reliably reveal interaction patterns in multivariate data with exogenous inputs and latent variables in the frequency domain. The method is extensively tested with toy models and successfully applied to experimental datasets, including ( 1 ) gene microarray and ( 2 ) genome-wide protein-microarray.
Inferring the ancestry at each locus in the genome of recently admixed individuals ( e. g., Latino Americans ) plays a major role in medical and population genetic inferences, ranging from finding disease-risk loci, to inferring recombination rates. Although many methods for local ancestry inference have been proposed, most are designed for use with genotyping arrays and fail to make use of the full spectrum of data available from sequencing. This is particularly important as current haplotype-based approac
In mammals, circadian periodicity has been described for gene expression in the hypothalamus and multiple peripheral tissues. It is accepted that 10%–15% of all genes oscillate in a daily rhythm, regulated by an intrinsic molecular clock. However, statistical analyses of this rhythm are limited by the small size of datasets and high levels of stochastic noise. Here, we propose a new approach applying digital signal processing algorithms separately to each group of genes. Combined with the statistical tests, this approach is combined with a statistical analysis of the rhythm.
Recombination is intimately related to the evolution of sexual reproduction and therefore constitutes a key process in evolutionary biology and genetics. While the outcome of crossover recombination can readily be detected as shuffled alleles by following the inheritance of markers in pedigreed families, the more precise location of both crossover and non-crossover events has been difficult to pinpoint. As a consequence, we lack a detailed portrait of the recombinating landscape for most organisms and knowl
Many proteins are nearly periodic. Instead of being formed by random amino acid sequences, repeat-proteins are made up of tandem arrays of similar stretches, usually between 20 and 40 amino acids in length. In ‘physiological’ conditions, these polypeptides fold up into elongated architectures of repeating structural motifs that stack one upon the next producing extended superhelical structures. These non-globular folds are stabilized only by interactions within each repeat or between adjacent repeats, but t
Hepatitis, obesity, and alcoholism all represent major risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ). Although these conditions also lead to integrated stress response ( ISR ) activation, the extent to which these stress pathways influence the pathogenesis of the disease has not been tested. Here we provide multiple lines of evidence demonstrating that the transcription factor CHOP promotes liver cancer and two mouse models thereof. Chop-null mice are resistant to chemical hepatocarcinogenesis and ChOP is known to promote chemical liver carcinogenesis, which is thought to be associated with increased risk of chemical exposure to the carcinogen. We provide evidence for the induction of this effect in two mice models of CHCHOP and one mouse model of mouse cancer.
Leishmania aethiopica is the etiological agent of cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) in Ethiopia and can cause severe and complicated cases such as diffuse CL ( DCL ), mucocutaneous CL or extensive CL, requiring systemic treatment. Despite the substantial burden, evidence-based treatment guidelines are lacking. We conducted a systematic review of clinical studies reporting on treatment outcomes in humans of drug treatment of CL due to L braziliensis in order to help identify potentially efficacious medications. In this study, we conducted systematic reviews of the clinical outcomes of treatment outcome in human patients of a clinical study reporting the efficacy and effectiveness of various drug treatments for CL.
Circadian clocks are self-sustained biochemical oscillators that underlie daily rhythms of sleep/waking/wake, metabolic activity, gene expression, and many other biological processes. These properties are difficult to explain by known biochemical reactions. We are analyzing the molecular components of the biological clock in the simplest cells that are known to exhibit circadian phenomena, the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus, in which genetic and biochemical studies have identified three key clock protein proteins.
It is well known that even under identical task conditions, there is a tremendous amount of trial-to-trial variability in both brain activity and behavioral output. Thus far, the vast majority of event-related potential ( ERP ) studies investigating the relationship between trials and activity have only tested a monotonic relationship. However, it was recently found that across time variability can correlate with behavioral performance independent of trials. This finding predicts a U- or inverted-U shaped r, and predicts that the U shape of the r is U shaped in the brain.
Sexual reproduction is a key evolutionary innovation of eukaryotes, but despite its rather conserved core features ( syngamy/karyogamy and meiosis ), many aspects of sexual development show high evolutionary flexibility. Mating compatibility in fungi is governed by mating type ( MAT ) loci. In basidiomycetes, the ancestral state is hypothesized to be tetrapolar, with two genetically unlinked MAT genes containing homeodomain transcription factor genes ( HD locus and pheromone and receptor genes ) located ~55
Chagas disease is the most important vector-borne disease in Latin America, with 9 to 11 million infected people, 60 million at risk of infection, and a disease burden of over 800, 000 DALYs. It is thus of key importance to improve and optimize the efficacy of current insecticide spraying strategies to cope with ( re ) infestation by non-domiciliated vectors and to investigate the potential of alternative strategies such as insect screens or bednets. In the present contribution, we use a combination of f
Feathers are arranged in precise pattern in avian skin. They first arise during development in a row along the dorsal midline, with rows of new feather buds added sequentially in the spreading wave. We show that the patterning of feathers relies on coupled fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) and bone morphogenetic protein ( BMP ) signalling together with mesenchymal cell movement, acting in coordinated reaction-diffusion-taxis system. This system is partly mechanochemical with mechanical-chemical integration o
The 2013–15 outbreak of Ebola virus disease in West Africa was unprecedented due to sustained transmission within urban environments and thousands of survivors. In 2014 the World Health Organization stated that there was insufficient evidence to give definitive guidance about which body fluids are infectious and when they pose a risk to humans. We report a rapid systematic review of published evidence on the presence of filoviruses in the blood of infected people and survivors of the 2014–2015 outbreak. The
The voltage trace of real neurons can follow multiple timescale dynamics that arise from correlated membrane conductances. Such processes can result in power-law behavior in which the membrane voltage cannot be characterized with a single time constant. The emergent effect of these membrane correlations is a non-Markovian process that can be modeled by integrating a fractional derivative. This model reproduces the upward and downward spike-frequency adaptations found experimentally in neocortical pyramidal neurons.
The ability of Paracoccidioides spp. to defend itself against reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced by host effector cells is a prerequisite to survive. To counteract these reactive species, fungal pathogens express, among different antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutases ( SODs ). In this study, we identified and characterized the genes encoded by the genome of one representative isolate of each one of the phylogenetic lineages. Assays were carried out to analyze the gene expression of yeast, mycelia, and yeast from the same lineage.
Intrinsically disordered/unstructured proteins ( IDPs ) are extremely sensitive to proteolysis in vitro, but show no enhanced degradation rates in vivo. Their existence and functioning may be explained if they are preferentially associated with chaperones in the cell, which may offer protection against degradation by proteases. To test this inference, we took pairwise interaction data from high-throughput interaction studies and analyzed to see if predicted disorder correlates with the tendency of partner b to predict disorder. We analyzed pairswise interactions data to test if prediction disorder correlated with a tendency to partner a. Our results showed that predicted disorders correlate with predicted disease.
The wing imaginal disc is an epithelial tissue that grows by cell proliferation during the larval development of the fly, and differentiates the wing and the thorax during pupal development. Several signalling pathways play a fundamental role during this process in part by regulating the expression of transcription factors. Among these pathways, the Decapentaplegic ( Dpp ) signalling pathway is required to regulate cell viability and motility during dorsal closure, but the same pathway controls growth and p
Centriole duplication is the primary mechanism by which centrosome number is controlled, and involves building new daughter centrioles adjacent to each pre-existing mother. In humans perturbations of centroole number are associated with tumorigenesis and microcephaly. The C. elegans homolog of Plk4, ZYG-1, is required for the assembly of a single daughter. We have identified the two PP1 orthologs, GSP-2 and SDS-22, as key regulators of protein levels. Our data show that down-regulation of PPP1 activity eith, which is a key regulator of the number of daughter-specific centrotrooles in the human population.
In the last 35 years, visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) has reemerged as an important public health problem in different parts of the world, with the expansion of transmission and the occurrence of new cases. In the Americas, the disease occurs within a complex network of relationships involving the etiological agent, Leishmania infantum, and its different populations: sand flies, mainly of Lutzomyia longipalpis; domestic or wild vertebrates, sources of vector infection; and susceptible hosts. Although the dog is the most susceptible to the bite of a sand fly, it is not the only dog that has been bitten by this bite.
Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is a human oncogenic virus that is closely associated with several human malignancies, including Burkitt's lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, extra-nodal nasal natural killer/T cell lymphomas ( NKTCL ), nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) and gastric cancer. Several viral proteins have been found to directly inhibit the expression of protein-coding genes and play critical roles in orchestrating diverse cellular processes. However, not all tumor tissues express these viral oncoproteins, sug
Alternative splicing is the process through which different combinations of exons of the same gene are selected to produce a variety of mature coding and non-coding transcripts. In this study, we present ggsashimi, a command-line tool for the visualization of alternative splice events across multiple samples. It is freely available at https://github. com/guigolab, and internally generates R code for plotting. We have developed a graphical visualization tool to visualize the events in multiple sample samples and to generate a visual representation of these events.
Cross-species comparison has emerged as a powerful paradigm for predicting cis-regulatory modules ( CRMs ) and understanding their evolution. The comparison requires reliable sequence alignment, which remains a challenging task for less conserved noncoding sequences. Furthermore, the existing models of DNA sequence evolution generally do not explicitly treat the special properties of CRM sequences, and thus cannot take advantage of their specific structural and evolutionary properties. To address these limi
The piRNA ( PIWI-interacting RNA ) pathway silences transposons in the germline, but it is unclear if this pathway has additional functions during development. Here we show that mutations in four Drosophila piRNAs, armi, aub, ago3, and rhi, lead to extensive fragmentation of the zygotic genome during the cleavage stage of embryonic divisions. Additionally, these mutations disrupt telomere resolution during meiosis and the cell division. Mutations in lig-IV, which disrupt non-homologous end joining, suppress the development of a new generation of telomre-resolution in both the meiotic and cell divisions, respectively.
Over the past 30 years, Zaire and Sudan ebolaviruses have been responsible for large hemorrhagic fever ( HF ) outbreaks with case fatalities ranging from 53% to 90%, while a third species, Côte d'Ivoire, caused a single non-fatal HF case. In November 2007, HF cases were reported in Bundibugyo District, Western Uganda. Laboratory investigation of the initial 29 suspect-case blood specimens by classic methods ( antigen capture, IgM and IgG ELISA ) and a recently developed random-primed pyrosequencing approach
The temporal progression of Alzheimer's Disease ( AD ) shows a pattern of high variability, with patients transiting the stages of the disease having time-courses ranging from months to decades. While the biological correlates of this variability have been investigated by many groups, the underlying reasons for such variations remain largely unknown. In this study, we use a large longitudinal dataset of AD patients, where there is a representation of patients at GDS/FAST stages 4–7. We calculate the amount of money we have invested in AD.
The adult mammalian brain contains two neurogenic regions, the hippocampus and the olfactory bulb. One important distinction between these two areas is that neurogenesis is thought to be part of a neuronal turnover. This process involves the addition of new units to an expanding network. In our own work we have examined the functional role of this process in a simplified hippocampal memory model. We show that the network can adapt to changes in input statistics while preserving representations of earlier information in the brain.
African trypanosomes, the causative agents of human sleeping sickness and Nagana cattle disease, are extracellular parasitic protozoa with a digenetic life cycle. They multiply as infective bloodstream ( BS ) forms in blood and body fluids of their mammalian hosts and as procyclic insect form in the midgut of the tsetse fly vector. The mitochondrion of BS parasites is functionally repressed and the cells rely exclusively on glycolysis for ATP production. Nevertheless, parasites that lack the mitochondrial P are able to produce ATP, which is essential for the cell's ability to synthesize ATP. However, these cells are unable to generate the ATP that is required for production of ATP by the parasite.
PMEL is an amyloidogenic protein that appears to be exclusively expressed in pigment cells and forms intralumenal fibrils within early stage melanosomes upon which eumelanins deposit in later stages. However, in most of these cases it is not clear whether the allelic variants reflect gain-of-function or loss of function. In this study, we have generated a mouse line in which the Pmel gene has been inactivated. These mice are fully viable, fertile, and display no obvious developmental defects. Melanosomes wi
Vector control remains the primary method to prevent dengue infections as there are limited risks of environmental contamination and toxicity. The objective of this study is to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of the effectiveness of several environmental control methods for vector control. This is partly due to issues about study design with many studies not having sufficient quality. As for biological and chemical methods, th
Proteins are the main druggable therapeutic targets for the treatment of human diseases ranging from metabolic disease, to cancer and dementia. However, designing new molecules as selective translation inhibitors to treat disease also necessitates a better understanding of how cells respond and adapt to compound-induced translational stalling. Compounds that inhibit the translation of PCSK9, a major regulator of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, have been identified that reduce LDL cholesterol in precli
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) is one of the most recently discovered human herpesviruses, and the etiologic agent of several neoplasms. One striking feature of lytic infection is that it destroys the host transcriptome by promoting global messenger RNA ( mRNA ) degradation via unknown mechanisms. The magnitude of cellular transcript loss is significant; nearly 75% of all messages are massively down-regulated, with another 20% undergoing a more modest decrease. This phenotype, termed host 
The type III interferon ( IFNλ ) receptor IL-28R is abundantly expressed in the respiratory tract and has been shown essential for host defense against some viral pathogens, however no data are available concerning its role in innate immune response to bacterial pathogens. Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa induced significant production of IFNFλ, and clearance of these bacteria from the lung was significantly increased in mice lacking the receptor. Improved bacterial clearance correlated with the ability of the host to detect and control bacterial infections. The type II interfon receptor ( ILN-λR ) is expressed abundantly in respiratory tracts and is shown to be essential in host immunity against viral and bacterial pathogenicity. However, little is known concerning the role of this receptor in immune responses to viral infections, such as bacteria that cause fungal infections in humans and other animals. In this study we show that the type-III receptor is important for the innate immunity response against pathogens that enter the lungs.
The clinical management of HAT has always been confronted with the issue of treatment efficacy, drug toxicity and mortality risk factors. In the process of assigning the probable cause of death to disease progression, treatment side effects, or any other factors including but not limited to coexistent pathology, the assessment of clinical status on admission among the baseline characteristics may be crucial.Shortness of breath. Pulmonary embolism classically presents with an acute onset of shortness in breath, a condition that can be characterized by a shortening of the breath in the patient.
Social interactions are a key feature of the life style of many species. In humans, isolation has serious effects on health. Drosophila melanogaster is a powerful model to study small-scale, temporally-transient social behavior. However, longer-term analysis of large groups of flies is hampered by the lack of effective and reliable tools. We built a new imaging arena and improved the existing tracking algorithm to reliably follow a large number of fly simultaneously. Next, based on the automatic classificat
The emergence of mobile technology offers new opportunities to improve clinical guideline adherence in resource-limited settings. We conducted a clinical pilot study in rural Bangladesh to evaluate the impact of a smartphone adaptation of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) diarrheal disease management guidelines, including a modality for age-based weight estimation. Software development was guided by end-user input; functionality included weight-for-age estimation, a dehydration assessment guide, and dehydration-assessment guide.
The effects of global environmental change on infectious disease dynamics have broad consequences that span human health, food security, and conservation. Climate change–driven temperature changes will likely impact the nature of host–parasite interactions, as both host and parasite traits can be strongly affected by temperature. Using experimental data from Daphnia magna and a microsporidian parasite, we fitted a mechanistic model of the within-host parasite population dynamics. Model parameters comprising
GABAergic interneurons play an important role in shaping the activity of excitatory pyramidal cells ( PCs ). How the various inhibitory cell types contribute to neuronal information processing, however, is not resolved. In this study, we propose a functional role for a widespread network motif consisting of parvalbumin- ( PV ) somatostatin ( SOM ) and vasoactive intestinal peptide ( VIP ) -expressing neurons. We propose that mutual inhibition between PV and SOM cells translates weak inputs into large inputs, which translates into a large amount of information.
Microbiota contribute to many dimensions of host phenotype, including disease. To link specific microbes to specific phenotypes, microbiome-wide association studies compare microbial abundances between two groups of samples. Abundance differences, however, reflect not only direct associations with the phenotype but also indirect effects due to microbial interactions. Using techniques from statistical physics, we developed a method to remove indirect associations and applied it to the largest dataset on pedi
The potential for Wolbachia as a natural control method for mosquito-borne pathogens such as dengue virus ( DENV ), Chikungunya virus, West Nile virus and malaria has been the focus of intense study in recent years. However, several disease transmitting mosquito species remain recalcitrant to this pathogen transinfection, hampering efforts to better understand the interaction between the host and disease causing pathogens. In this study, we have compared the effect of the naturally occurring virus in two disease-causing mosquitoes and compared its effect in one of them.
Cilia are microtubule-based cellular organelles that mediate signal transduction. In vertebrates, the cystoprotein Inversin localizes to a portion of the cilia shaft adjacent to the transition zone ( TZ ), a region termed the “Inversins compartment”. The mechanisms that establish and maintain the InvC are unknown. Here we explored the biogenesis, structure, and composition of C. elegans ciliary doublet region and the co-localization of NPHP-2, arl-13, klp-11, unc-119. We show that nphp-1 is conserved and di
The myelin sheath, a multilamellar elongation of the plasma membrane formed by oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system ( CNS ), allows for the rapid, saltatory conduction of action potentials along axons. In individuals afflicted with demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis, CNS myelination is destroyed, resulting in functional deficits. Here, we demonstrate that the basal polarity complex protein Scribble is up-regulated at times corresponding to the transition from developing and mature C to developing, mature, and senescent C. We show that this transition is accompanied by a transition to mature and developing C, which is characterized by changes in protein structure and protein function.
Streptolysin S ( SLS ) is a bacteriocin-like haemolytic and cytotoxic virulence factor that plays a key role in listeriosis, the causative agent of pharyngitis, impetigo, necrotizing fasciitis and streptococcal toxic shock syndrome. The distribution of the L. monocytogenes cluster is particularly noteworthy in that it is found exclusively among a subset of lineage I strains; i. e., those responsible for the majority of outbreaks of infection of pregnant and immuno-compromised humans. Expression of these gen
Mycetoma is a chronic granulomatous inflammatory disease caused either by fungi or by bacteria. Characteristic of this disease is that the causative agents organise themselves in macroscopic structures called grains. These grains are surrounded by a massive inflammatory reaction. The processes leading to this host tissue reaction and the immunophenotypic characteristics are not known. To address this question, as a proof of principle, we assessed the expression levels of interleukin-17 and matrix metallopro to address the question of how the host tissues react to the presence of these grains and to what extent the immune phenotypes are known?
Molecular recognition by intrinsically disordered proteins ( IDPs ) commonly involves specific localized contacts and target-induced disorder to order transitions. However, some IDP remain in the bound state, a phenomenon termed “fuzziness”. This phenomenon has been characterised by ID-protein polyvalency, sequence-insensitivity and a dynamic ensemble of dissordered bound-state conformations. Besides the above general features, specific biophysical models for fuzzy interactions are mostly lacking. In this study, we describe a new phenomenon that has recently emerged as a consequence of the existence of a large number of fuzzy-interacting proteins.
Borrelia burgdorferi, the etiologic agent of Lyme disease, is transmitted through the blood feeding of Ixodes ticks. The canonical ATP-dependent protease Lon participates in an assortment of biological processes in bacteria, including the catalysis of damaged or senescent proteins and short-lived regulatory proteins. In the absence of known secreted proteases in the genome, we have documented the reliance of this organism on borrowed proteolytic activity. Previous work in our laboratory reported that the ca
Fc gamma receptor ( FcγR ) -mediated antibody functions play a crucial role in preventing HIV infection. One such function, antibody-dependent phagocytosis ( ADP ), is thought to be involved in controlling other viral infections, but its role is unknown. In this study, we measured the ability of HIV-specific polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) to mediate the internalization of virus-infected cells or virions into cells and cells on the verge of infection, and uptake of these cells was measured by measuring by injecting them into infected cells. We found that these MAbs were capable of mediating the externalization and internalizing the cells of the infected cell into the cell or cells that were already infected.
Hookworm infection ( hookworm ) is highly endemic in many low- and middle-income countries throughout the world, its global economic and health impact is not well known. Therefore, it is difficult for decision makers such as funders, policy makers, disease control officials, intervention manufacturers to determine how much time, energy, and resources to invest in hookworms control. In this study, we developed a computational simulation model to estimate the economic, health and economic burden of hook worm infection.
Hypoxic injury to the developing human brain is a major cause of both acute and chronic neurodevelopmental impairments. Premature infants, particularly those characterized by very-low birth weights ( VLBW; less than 1, 500 g ) are the population at greatest risk for chronic hypoxemia and for adverse neurocognitive outcomes. Hypoxia causes discrete axon pathfinding errors in certain interneurons and motor neurons. However, it is unknown whether this phenomenon would have similar effects in a vertebrate.
Human paracoccidioidomycosis ( PCM ) is an endemic fungal infection of pulmonary origin that disseminates to different sites, notably oral mucous membranes, skin, adrenal glands and reticuloendothelial system. Primary infection in humans occurs in the lungs, where it causes chronic granulomatous inflammation of the parenchyma leading to fibrosis and severe restriction of respiratory function. This study focuses on a comparative analysis between High Resolution Computed Tomography ( HRCT ) and histopathologi. High resolution tomography is a technique that is used to compare the resolution of high-resolution tomographic and the histological properties of histologic markers. In this study, we focus on the analysis of a combination of both methods.
In areas endemic for visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ), a large number of infected individuals mount a protective cellular immune response and remain asymptomatic carriers. We propose an interferon-gamma release assay ( IFN-γRA ) as a novel marker for latent L. donovani infection. In this study, we modified a commercial kit ( QuantiFERON ) and evaluated its potential to detect the cell-mediated T-cell immune responses. The assay based on SLA had a sensitivity of 80% and specificity of 100%, respectively. Our results indicate that the assay is sensitive to both cellular and cellular factors.
Gastrointestinal infections caused by enteric yersiniae can become persistent and complicated by relapsing enteritis and severe autoimmune disorders. To establish a persistent infection, the bacteria have to cope with hostile surroundings when they transmigrate through the intestinal epithelium and colonize underlying gut-associated lymphatic tissues. Here, we show that the CNFY toxin, which enhances translocation of the antiphagocytic Yop effectors, induces inflammatory responses in the gut. This results in extensive inflammation and inflammation.
Plants are generally immune to most pathogenic microbes due to their innate defense systems, but the exceptional combination of a susceptible host and a pathogen species ( or race ) can result in disease. Plants have two types of defense mechanisms: one against general microorganisms, and the other against specific pathogens. One of them is effector-triggered immunity ( PTI ), which is stimulated by plant surveillance proteins ( R-proteins ) that specifically recognize one of the pathogens' effectors ( Avr 
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by infection with the trematode schistomosoma spp, transmitted through fresh water snails whose distribution is limited and particularly sensitive to environmental changes. Transmission of the disease is focal and the spatial heterogeneity across specific geographical areas reflects various human, snail host, and ecological factors. To determine where control programs should operate, it is essential to identify and enumerate target populations for mass control.
Sperm have a relatively simple job—find an oocyte and provide it with a second set of chromosomes. While much has been learned about sperm motility in aquatic species, the mechanisms that guide sperm to oocytes in internally fertilizing animals are less well understood. Caenorhabditis elegans is a powerful model to study sperm behavior and fertilization. Here we use genetics and electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry to partially delineate F-series prostaglandin metabolism pathways. We show that o
The immunogenicity of biotherapeutics can bottleneck development pipelines and pose a barrier to widespread clinical application. As a result, there is a growing need for improved deimmunization technologies. We have recently described algorithms that simultaneously optimize proteins for both reduced T cell epitope content and high-level function. The leading edge of this design space is the Pareto frontier, i. e. the undominated variants for which no other single design exhibits better performance in both.
Sexually reproducing species use a specialized form of cell division known as meiosis to create haploid gametes from diploid progenitor cells ( or a similar genomic reduction in polyploids ). The frequency and distribution of crossovers are regulated by intrinsic and extrinsic environmental factors, but much more is known about the molecular mechanisms governing the former compared to the latter. Here we show that elevated temperature induces meiotic hyper-recombination in Arabidopsis thaliana and we use geothermal heat to increase the temperature of the plant to induce the formation of a new type of gamete in the chickadee.
Human knowledge about fundamental molecular structures and functions, such as mutations or protein-protein interactions, is spread across the entire literature. Even knowledgeable and experienced scientists can benefit from computational tools that help navigate this vast and rapidly evolving terrain. In this paper, we describe a novel computational approach to this challenge, a knowledge-based system that combines reading, reasoning, and reporting methods to facilitate analysis of experimental data. Readin
Helminth parasites secrete extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) that can be internalised by host immune cells resulting in modulation of host immunity. While the molecular cargo of EVs have been characterised in many parasites, little is known about the surface-exposed molecules that participate in ligand-receptor interactions with the host cell surface to initiate their internalisation. Using a membrane-impermeable biotin reagent to capture proteins displayed on the outer membrane surface of two EV sub-populatio, we were able to demonstrate that these proteins were displayed in the membrane of the inner membrane and that they were expressed in two different subpopuliatio.
The precise regulation of microRNA ( miRNA ) transcription and processing is important for eukaryotic development. Plant microRNAs are first transcribed as stem-loop primary transcripts by RNA polymerase II, then cleaved in the nucleus by Dicer-like 1 ( DCL1 ). In this study, we identified a cycling DOF transcription factor, CDF2, which regulates the accumulation of a population of mi RNA genes. We found that the interaction between CDFs2 and the promoters of pri-miRNA genes is preferentially regulated by i
Folliculogenesis is a progressive and highly regulated process, which is essential to provide ova for later reproductive life, requires the bidirectional communication between the oocyte and granulosa cells. This physical connection-mediated communication conveys not only the signals from the Oocyte to granular cells that regulate their proliferation but also metabolites that are biosynthesized by oocytes for biosynthesis. However, the underlying mechanism of establishing this communication is largely unkno
The RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) is a processive eukaryotic enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of messenger RNA using a DNA template. Despite numerous biochemical and biophysical studies, it remains elusive whether the “secondary channel” is the only route for NTP to reach the active site of the enzyme or if the main channel could be an alternative. In this work, we have built a complete transcription bubble based on multiple sources of existing structural data and used Molecular Dynamics ( MD ) simulation to simulate the structural and biochemical properties of both existing and new structures.
Disease incidence data are needed to guide decision-making for public health interventions. Although dengue is a reportable disease in Thailand and Cambodia, the degree that reported incidence underrecognizes true disease burden is unknown. To overcome this problem, authors of several published studies multiplied the number of reported cases by a set factor to obtain an estimate of actual cases. Usually these multiplication factors ( MFs ) have been based on data derived from a single study, often performed
Natural killer ( NK ) cells, plasmacytoid dendritic cells ( pDCs ), CD11b and CD8α conventional dendsritic cell ( cDC ) have all been demonstrated to be important for the generation of protective immunity to various viral infections. However, how the functions of different types of immune cells impact the shaping of the global immune response to viruses in vivo is not well understood. To address this question, we took advantage of well-defined molecular interactions involved in the recognition of mouse cyto
In eukaryotes, ribosomal RNA genes are arranged in tandem arrays in copy numbers ranging from several hundred to several thousand in plants. Although it is clear that not all copies are transcribed under normal growth conditions, the molecular basis controlling the expression of specific sets of rRNA genes remains unclear. In this study, we report four major RRNA gene variants in Arabidopsis thaliana. Interestingly, while transcription of one of these variants is induced and the others are either repressed or induced, both of the variants are expressed in the same plant. This study is the first to show that the transcription and repression of a single gene variant in a plant is either induced or is suppressed.
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a ubiquitous β-herpesvirus that causes life-long disabilities in immunocompromised adults, specifically individuals undergoing solid organ or hematopoietic cell transplant and individuals with Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome ( AIDS ). In this report, we have identified candidate HDAC1-interacting proteins in the context of infection by using a method for rapid immunoisolation of an epitope-tagged protein coupled with mass spectrometry. Putative interactors included multi
Respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) is the major cause of pneumonia and bronchiolitis among infants and children globally. In this study, we elucidated the antibody repertoire following primary infection and traced its evolution through adolescence and adulthood. Whole genome-fragment phage display libraries ( GFPDL ) expressing linear and conformational epitopes in the fusion protein F and attachment protein ( G ) were used for unbiased epitope profiling of infant sera pre- and post-RSV infection. We found that the F, attachment and F fusion proteins ( F ) are the most abundant and well-characterized antibody-encoded proteins in infant serum.
Filariae are parasitic nematodes that are transmitted to their definitive host as third-stage larvae by arthropod vectors like mosquitoes. For over 25 years now, the strategy for controlling filarial diseases has relied on Mass Drug Administration ( MDA ) programs directed by the World Health Organization using donated drugs to reduce the transmission and morbidity of these fi
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a disabling and disfiguring disease caused by mosquito-borne, filarial ( threadlike ) parasitic worms. The Global Program to Eliminate LF relies on rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ) to determine where annual mass drug administration for LF is required and when it can be stopped. These tests detect a Wuchereria bancrofti glycoprotein in the blood of infected persons via a carbohydrate moiety recognized by the monoclonal antibodies AD12 and DH6. 5. Loiasis cross-reactivity with th
Primary cilia are specialised sensory and developmental signalling devices extending from the surface of most eukaryotic cells. Defects in these organelles cause inherited human disorders ( ciliopathies ) such as retinitis pigmentosa and Bardet-Biedl syndrome ( BBS ). Cilium formation, maintenance and function depend on intracellular transport systems, which are driven by kinesin-2 and IFT-dynein motors, and regulated by the cargo-adaptor protein complex, or BBSome. In this study, we employed the nematode C as a model system for the development and maintenance of the primary cile. We employed C to investigate the mechanisms by which C is able to form and maintain a ciliary organelle.
Stimulus reconstruction, as implemented by the scientist, typically involves three steps: ( i ) characterizing the space of relevant stimuli; ( ii ) constructing functions relating stimuli to neuronal responses; and ( iii ) using these functions, together with new neuronal activity, in order to “decode” new stimuli. In this work we show that a great deal of information about a physical environment can be obtained using only very coarse features of population spiking activity. Using hippocampal place cells a
Viral fulminant hepatitis ( FH ) is a clinical syndrome characterized by massive necrosis of hepatocytes along with hepatic encephalopathy during the infections. Despite advances in the development of antiviral drugs, a poor understanding of the immune mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of human viral fH has largely stalled the identification of effective clinical interventions. Here, we show that wild-type mice infected with murine hepatitis virus strain 3 ( MHV-3 ) manifest with severe disease and hig
Hookworm infections are an important cause of ( severe ) anemia and iron deficiency in children in the tropics. Type of hookworm species ( Ancylostoma duodenale or Necator americanus ) and infection load are considered to be associated with disease burden, although these parameters are rarely assessed due to limitations of currently used diagnostic methods. Using multiplex real-time PCR, we evaluated the prevalence of the two species and their contribution towards severe disease in pre-school Malawi. Infect
Homologous recombination ( HR ) is based on DNA end protection: nucleases degrade the dsDNA ends to expose 3′ single strand ( ss ) DNA tails, which then form a nucleoprotein filament with the recombinase RAD51 that promotes strand invasion and subsequent DNA synthesis rea
Burkholderia pseudomallei causes melioidosis, a common source of pneumonia and sepsis in Southeast Asia and Northern Australia that results in high mortality rates. In this study, we analyzed the humoral immune response of the caprine model of aerosol infection that leads to a systemic infection. Antibody reactive proteins were detected in all serum samples after infection, with GroEL, EF-Tu, and DnaK immunogenically dominant. Seven common reactive antigens were selected for further analysis using ELISA. Th
Cytoplasmic cyclin-dependent kinase 1 ( Cdk1, triggered by a positive feedback loop at the end of G2, is the key event that initiates mitotic entry into mitosis. In metaphase, anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome–dependent destruction of Cyclin B1 inactivates the complex again, allowing cells to exit and cell division. Several models describe the kinetics of the activation in human cells, but experimental data on how the activity proceeds in the cytosol have largely been lacking. We use a novel approach t
The development of a neutralizing antibody ( Nab ) -based vaccine that is protective against diverse human immunodeficiency virus-1 subtypes remains a major global health challenge. While a number of different immunogens have been tested in both animals and humans, it is unclear which specific epitopes on the HIV surface should be targeted by a vaccine and if vaccine-elicited Nabs will mediate protection. In order to gain insight to this question, numerous studies have analyzed the epitope targets that are targeted for protection against the diverse HIV-infectious subtype of the virus.
Congenital human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) infection is the leading cause of neurological disabilities in children worldwide, but the mechanisms underlying these disorders are far from well-defined. In the present study, we report that H CMV infection dysregulates the Notch signaling pathway in human neural progenitor cells ( NPCs ). As an important downstream effector of NotCH signaling, the transcriptional regulator Hairy and Enhancer of Split 1 ( Hes1 ) is essential for governing NPC fate and fetal brain 
In the pursuit of the genetic basis of phenotypic evolution, researchers have favored divergence of gene expression as a major source of diversity. To better characterize how variation in regulatory sequences drives divergence in expression, we undertook a systematic study of transcription factor binding, measured by mRNA-seq, to the genome-wide binding of four transcription factors involved in early anterior-posterior patterning in blastoderm embryos. We found that mRNA levels are much better conserved in the presence of mRNA than in absence of expression levels, suggesting that the expression of these factors is much higher than previously thought.
The global programme to eliminate lymphatic filariasis ( GPELF ) launched in 2000 aims to achieve the goal by interrupting transmission through annual single dose mass drug administration ( MDA ) of albendazole ( fixed dose 400 mg ) either with diethylcarbamazine citrate or ivermectin ( 150–200 µg/kg ) for at least 5–6 years. By 2010 the programme had made significant progress in 53 of the 72 endemic countries, delivering billions of treatments to nearly 897 million people in the world. In India, it has bee
The use of the organophosphate larvicide temephos to water storage containers is a widely used dengue vector control method. However, the efficacy and community-effectiveness of this method remain unclear. This systematic review is the first that aims to assess the effectiveness of a single intervention or in combination with other interventions. A comprehensive literature search of 6 databases was performed ( PubMed, WHOLIS, GIFT, CDSR, EMBASE, Wiley ), grey literature and cross references were also screen. We screen, searched, cross referenced, and searched for the relevant literature. Our results show that the method is effective in reducing the number of people infected with the disease.
The cohesin complex holds sister chromatids together from the time of their duplication in S phase until their separation during mitosis. In budding yeast, the Ctf19 kinetochore subcomplex and the replication fork-associated factor, Csm3, are both important mediators of pericentromeric cohesion, but they act through distinct mechanisms. We show here that components of the Fission yeast CTF19 complex direct the increased association of cohesion with the centromere, which is essential for its functionality in the process of fission, and that this association is necessary for the function of centromeere. The C TF19 protein-coding complex is a key mediator of this function.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most widespread arbovirus with an estimated 100 million infections occurring every year. Dengue is emerging as a global health concern with the annual average number of DF/DHF cases reported to World Health Organization increasing dramatically in recent years. Metabolomics and lipidomics are rapidly emerging fields of ‘omics’ research that aim to study the global changes of small molecule metabolites and lipids in biological systems in response to biological stimuli or perturbat
Research on Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) has increased in recent decades, and significant need-gaps in diagnostic and treatment tools remain. Analysing bibliometric data from published research is a powerful method for revealing research efforts, partnerships and expertise. In this study, we aimed to identify and map research networks in Germany and their partners abroad to enable an informed and transparent evaluation of German contributions to the field. We found 1, 187 ( 4. 4% ) with German autho
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) and soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) have been targeted since 2000 in Haiti, with a strong mass drug administration ( MDA ) program led by the Ministry of Public Health and Population and its collaborating international partners. By 2012, Haiti’s neglected tropical disease program had reached full national scale, and with such consistently good epidemiological coverage that it is now able to stop treatment for LF throughout almost all of the country. Essential to this success, 
In all organisms, proper regulation of the cell cycle is critical to coordinate genome replication, segregation and cell division. In some groups of bacteria, e. g. Alphaproteobacteria, tight regulation is also necessary for the morphological and functional differentiation of cells. Sinorhizobium meliloti is an economically and ecologically important nitrogen-fixing symbiotic partner with specific legume hosts. During this symbiosis, the bacteria undergo an elaborate cellular differentiation within host roo
Francisella tularensis is a highly infectious bacterium causing the zoonotic disease tularemia. Its ability to multiply and survive in macrophages is critical for its virulence. In the present work, we designed an in vitro negative selection method, based on the use of a bacteriostatic antibiotic, to recover intracellular growth-deficient mutants directly from a pool of mutants. We selected one mutant in a gene encoding a putative γ-glutamyl transpeptidase ( GGT ). This gene ( FTL_0766 ) was hence designated as the first gene to be identified in this work.
Protozoan parasites of the genus Leishmania alternate between flagellated, elongated extracellular promastigotes found in insect vectors, and round-shaped amphipathosomes enclosed in phagolysosome-like Parasitophorous Vacuoles ( PVs ) of infected mammalian host cells. In the present studies, macrophages infected with L. amazonensis were challenged with two species of parasites that differ in their biogenesis, morphology and parasite occupancy. Fusion was investigated by time-lapse image acquisition of livin, which was then used to study the molecular biology of L. lishmana, the protozoan parasite that infects mammalian cells and is the causative agent of human disease.
Eliciting broad tier 2 neutralizing antibodies ( nAbs ) is a major goal of HIV-1 vaccine research. Here we investigated the ability of native, membrane-expressed trimeric Env trimers to elicit NAbs. Unusually potent nAb titers developed in 2 of 8 rabbits immunized with virus-like particles ( VLPs ) expressing native trimer, followed by a protein boost. All 3 sera neutralized via quaternary epitopes and exploited natural gaps in the glycan defenses of the second conserved region of JR-FL gp120. Specifically, we exploited a gap in a previously unappreciated region, the JFL-Protein-Glycerin ( GGF ) region. In this study we developed a novel strategy to exploit the gap and exploit it for the first time.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a necrotizing skin disease which is primarily affecting the subcutaneous tissue and can, if untreated, lead to extensive and severe lesions. While traditionally surgery has dominated the clinical management of BU, the introduction of the combination chemotherapy with oral rifampicin and intramuscular streptomycin greatly improved treatment and reduced recurrence rates. For reasons not fully understood, wound healing is delayed in a proportion of antibiotic treated BU patients. Therefo
Matching energy supply and demand is critical in the bioenergetic homeostasis of all cells. This is a special problem in neurons where high levels of energy expenditure may occur at sites remote from the cell body, given the remarkable length of axons and enormous variability of impulse activity over time. Positioning mitochondria at areas with high energy requirements is an essential solution to this problem, but it is not known how this is related to impulse conduction in vivo. Therefore, in order to answer this question, we need to find a way to position the mitochondrion at these areas.
Spondylocarpotarsal synostosis ( SCT ) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by progressive vertebral fusions and caused by loss of function mutations in Filamin B ( FLNB ). FlNB acts as a signaling scaffold by linking the actin cytoskleteon to signal transduction systems, yet the disease mechanisms are poorly understood. Employing a Flnb knockout mouse model, we found morphologic and molecular evidence that the intervertebral discs ( IVDs ) of flnb–/–mice undergo rapid and progressive degenerati
Viruses have evolved a plethora of mechanisms to target host antiviral responses. Here, we propose a yet uncharacterized mechanism of immune regulation by the orthomyxovirus Thogoto virus ( THOV ) ML protein through engaging general transcription factor TFIIB. ML generates a depleted nuclear environment by re-localizing it into the cytoplasm. Although a broad effect on gene expression would be anticipated, ML expression, delivery of an ML-derived functional domain or experimental depletion of TFIB only lead to the discovery of a novel mechanism by which the THOGOTO VIRUS THOXXOVORUS TROUXOVORIA VIRTUIRO TROXO.
Human parvovirus B19 is a small, non-enveloped, single stranded DNA ( ssDNA ) virus that infects human erythroid progenitor cells ( EPCs ) in the bone marrow and fetal liver, and can cause hematological disorders such as slapped cheek syndrome in children. Currently, there are no vaccines or specific antiviral therapeutics that can prevent or treat B 19V-induced H1-to-H2-phase arrest. Here, we investigated the mechanism underlying the function of the putative C-terminal transactivation domain ( TAD2 ) withi
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most prevalent, medically important mosquito-borne flavivirus. Disease ranges from uncomplicated to life-threatening disease, characterized by endothelial dysfunction and vascular leakage. In this study, we demonstrate that the closely-related West Nile virus NS1 triggers localized vascular leak in the dorsal dermis of wild-type B6 mice and that this effect is independent of inflammatory cytokines and is dependent on components of the glycocalyx-like layer. We also show that DENVs are the causative agent of a significant number of human infections, including Dengue fever, which can be fatal if not treated immediately.
How eukaryotic cells position their cleavage furrow for cytokinesis is a key question in cell biology. In budding yeast, the assembly of a septin ring at the future site of bud emergence is the first step towards cytokineis. The integrity of this ring is crucial for the proper spindle positioning, and the SPindle position checkpoint ( SPOC ). This checkpoint delays mitotic exit as long as the anaphase spindles do not properly align with the division axis. Here, we show that the ubiquitin-ligases Dma1 and Dm are involved in this checkpoint.
Humans inhabit a remarkably diverse range of environments, and adaptation through natural selection has likely played a central role in the capacity to survive and thrive in extreme climates. Unlike numerous studies that used only population genetic data to search for evidence of selection, here we scan the human genome for selection signals by identifying the SNPs with the strongest correlations between allele frequencies and climate across 61 worldwide populations. We find a striking enrichment of genic a
The short QT syndrome ( SQTS ) is a genetically heterogeneous condition characterized by abbreviated intervals and an increased susceptibility to arrhythmia and sudden death in affected patients. This simulation study identifies a viable tissue substrate in the rapid-delayed rectifier K+ current ( IKr ) -linked SQT1 variant of the QTS. Markov chain models were found to be superior to Hodgkin-Huxley ( HH ) models in reproducing experimental data regarding effects of N588K mutation on KCNH2-encoded hERG potas, including the effect of KCH2 -encoding HERG Potas. The HAGHUXLEY model was also found superior compared to the HH-based HUXley model.
A variety of simple models of collective behavior have been proposed to understand the collective motion of animals. These models can be insightful but may lack important elements necessary to predict the motion. Adding more detail increases predictability but can make models too complex to be informative. Here we report that deep attention networks can obtain a model of the social interaction that is simultaneously predictive and insightful thanks to an organization in modules. When using simulated traject
Drug resistant HIV is a major threat to the long-term efficacy of antiretroviral treatment. Around 10% of ART-naïve patients in Europe are infected with drug-resistant HIV type 1. Hence it is important to understand the dynamics of transmitted drug resistance evolution. In this study we employ a phylodynamic approach to quantify the fitness costs of major resistance mutations in the Swiss HIV cohort study ( SHCS ). The viral phylogeny reflects the transmission tree, which we model using stochastic birth–dea. We model the evolution of the HIV-infected patient population in Switzerland.
Unicellular organisms are particularly exposed to the environment, and the major changes in microbial gene expression programs arise as a consequence of extracellular stresses. Most regulation is achieved by transcription events, with a shift of the transcriptional machinery from growth- to stress-related genes. Therefore, the classical large complexes which contribute to a strong and efficient RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) gene transcription, such as Mediator and SAGA, are important for stress survival. How
Primate lentivirus nef is required for sustained virus replication in vivo and accelerated progression to AIDS. While exploring the mechanism by which Nef increases the infectivity of cell-free virions, we failed to detect an effect of this putative modification on the quantity of virion-associated Env. To probe for qualitative changes in HIV-1 sensitivity to agents that target distinct features of the membrane proximal external region ( MPER ) of TMgp41. We found that this activity is conserved in a retrovirus that modulates the size of its envelope-containing envelope ( CD4 ) in the host cell. In this study we investigated for a change in this effect on HIV sensitivity.
Cholangiocarcinoma is one of the most common malignant cancers in Southeast Asia, with incidence rates ranging from 93. 8 to 317. 6 per 100, 000 people/year in some districts of Northeast Thailand alone. Chronic infections by the food-borne human liver fluke Opisthorchis viverrini have been associated with the occurrence of CCA in several Southeast Asian countries ( including Thailand and Laos ), which has led to the inclusion of this parasite amongst the Group 1 carcinogens in the International Agency for 
Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae and M. lepromatosis that primarily affects the skin and peripheral nervous system. After being exposed to the pathogen, most of the individuals present resistance to infection. Those who develop the disease can fit within a broad clinical spectrum with two antagonistic poles, from paucibacillary tuberculoid to multibacytous disease. This clinical diversity relies on genetic variants of both the host and environmental factors. We investig
Metabolomics provides a powerful tool to analyse physiological and disease-induced biological states on the molecular level, taking into account both the organism's intrinsic properties, i. e. genetic factors, and the effects of lifestyle, diet and environment. However, many published studies did not analyse their data stratified by sex. This study investigated sex-specific differences of serum metabolite concentrations and their underlying genetic determination. For discovery and replication we used more t
Genome-scale metabolic networks provide a comprehensive structural framework for modeling genotype-phenotype relationships through flux simulations. The solution space for the metabolic flux state of the cell is typically very large and optimization-based approaches are often necessary for predicting the active metabolic state under specific environmental conditions. In this study, we propose a new method, Minimization of Metabolites Balance ( MiMBl ), which accounts for stoichiometry representation in the 
Landscape may affect the distribution of infectious diseases by influencing the population density and dispersal of hosts and vectors. Plague ( Yersinia pestis infection ) is a highly virulent re-emerging disease, the ecology of which has been scarcely studied in Africa. Human seroprevalence data for the major plague focus of Madagascar suggest that plague spreads heterogeneously across the landscape as a function of the relief. We therefore investigated the relationship between disease distribution and th
The heptalaminate-covered, syncytial tegument is an important anatomical adaptation that enables schistosome parasites to maintain long-term, intravascular residence in definitive hosts. Investigation of the proteins present in this surface layer and the immune responses elicited by them during infection is crucial to our understanding of host/parasite interactions. In this study, we comprehensively re-analyse the S. mansoni genome to identify an expanded repertoire of eleven, SmLy6A-K, and describe the serological and immunological mechanisms that are required to understand the interaction between the parasite and its host.
Cells in the Drosophila retina have well-defined morphologies that are attained during tissue morphogenesis. We present a computer simulation of the epithelial tissue in which the global interfacial energy between cells is minimized. The simulations reproduce the geometries of wild-type and mutant cells, distinguish features of cadherin dynamics, and emphasize the importance of adhesion protein biogenesis and its timing with respect to cell remodeling.
MT1-MMP is a potent invasion-promoting membrane protease employed by aggressive cancer cells to degrade extracellular matrix ( ECM ). However, the extent to which the turnover contributes to the degradation at invadopodia has not been clarified. To approach this problem, we first performed FRAP ( Fluorescence Recovery after Photobleaching ) experiments with fluorescence-tagged MT1 1, and found a very rapid recovery in these experiments, approximated by double-exponential plots with time constants of 26 s an. We also found that the recovery was very fast in this experiments.
The development of drug resistance in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) represents a major public health obstacle. Drug resistance is transmitted from one infected individual to another, rendering standard first line therapies ineffective and necessitating costlier therapies for treatment-naïve patients. Despite the increasing prevalence of human-drug resistance, we still have an incomplete understanding of how the virus emerges and spreads spatially within an individual. Understanding the spati
Diffusible molecules, such as morphogens, growth factors, cytokines and chemokines, play many important roles in solid tissues, among which are conveying positional information, coordinating proliferation with differentiation, and enabling collective responses to disturbances. However, whether such feedback also plays an important role in tissue morphogenesis has yet to be explored. Here we use mathematical modeling to show that a particular feedback architecture in which both positive and negative feedback can be expressed in the same way is a well-studied feedback system.
Myopia, or nearsightedness, is the most common eye disorder, resulting primarily from excess elongation of the eye. The etiology of myopia is poorly understood. Here we performed the largest ever genome-wide association study ( 45, 771 participants ) on age of onset and identified 22 novel associations ( ), two of which are replications of earlier associations with refractive error. Ten of these novel and two previously identified associations replicate in a separate cohort of 8, 323 participants who report
Like other animals, lampreys have a central pattern generator ( CPG ) circuit that activates muscles for locomotion and also adjusts the activity to respond to sensory inputs from the environment. Such a feedback system is crucial for responding appropriately to unexpected perturbations, but it is also active during normal unperturbed steady swimming and influences the baseline swimming pattern. In this study, we investigate different functional forms of body curvature-based sensory feedback and evaluate th
The global pandemic of Human Immunodeficiency Virus ( HIV ) infections is being driven mainly by the group M lineage of HIV-1, which crossed the species barrier from chimpanzees to humans about 100 years ago. By the time it started to spread beyond its epicentre in Central Africa, the virus had already accumulated considerable sequence diversity, and the global molecular diversity still bears the clear footprint of the strong founder effects that characterized this initial expansion. The risk and pace of th
During biological development, evolving forms are marked by distinct functionalities. An interesting example is the organization of myofibrils in striated muscle cells. As the myocyte matures, the contractile cytoskeleton is rearranged from an irregularly dispersed pattern into tightly organized bundles spanning the length, rather than the width, of the cell. This is important because changes in muscle structure accompany not only morphogenesis, but also pathogenesis. We hypothesized that geometric cues in the structure of muscle are important for the development of new forms, such as the formation of a new muscle cell, and that these cues are also important to the process of development.
The symbiotic bacterium Wolbachia is currently being trialled as a biocontrol agent in several countries to reduce dengue transmission. In this work, we examined the potential of the bacterial pathogen to spread to infect all individuals within wild mosquito populations, but requires a high rate of maternal transmission, strong cytoplasmic incompatibility and low fitness costs in the host in order to do so. Additionally, extensive differences in climate, field-release protocols, urbanization level and human density amon were found to be important in determining the risk of infection.
Histone lysine methylation ( H3K4me ) is an important epigenetic modification in regulating chromatin structure and gene expression in eukaryotic cells. In this work, we identified a JmjC domain-containing protein, JMJ703, as a histone methylase that specifically demethylates mono-, di- and trimethylated H 3K 4me in rice. Loss-of-function mutation of the gene affected stem elongation and plant growth, which may be related to increased expression of cytokinin oxidase genes in the mutant. Analysis of crystal 
The HIV-1 capsid is involved in all infectious steps from reverse transcription to integration site selection, and is the target of multiple host cell and pharmacologic ligands. However, how these diverse phenotypes are achieved is not well understood. In this study we show that a multi-subunit interface formed exclusively within CA hexamers mediates binding to linear epitopes within cellular cofactors NUP153 and CPSF6. This interaction is competed for by the antiretroviral compounds PF74 and BI-2. Each ligand is an inhibitor of this interaction. We show here that the binding of a single subunit complex within a CA-hexamer interface is a competition for the anti-HIV compound PF-74, which is also a competitor of the two compounds.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti transmits some of the most important human arboviruses, including dengue, yellow fever and chikungunya viruses. It has a large genome containing many repetitive sequences, which has resulted in the genome being poorly assembled — there are 4, 758 scaffolds, few of which have been assigned to a chromosome. To allow the mapping of genes affecting disease transmission, we have improved the current genome assembly by scoring a high number of SNPs in recombinant progeny from a cross be
Mosquito Aedes aegypti, vector of dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever viruses, is an important target of vector control programs in tropical countries. Most mosquito surveillance programs are still based on the traditional household larval surveys, despite the availability of new trapping devices. We report the results of a multicentric entomological survey using four types of traps. The results show that traps performed better than the larv survey in measuring the seasonal pattern of mosquito infestation.
The human cytidine deaminase APOBEC3G is a potent inhibitor of retroviruses and transposable elements and is able to deaminate cytidines to uridine in single-stranded DNA replication intermediates. However, there is mounting evidence that the structure-function organization of this protein is not only monomeric, but can also assemble into large RNP complexes that accumulate in cellular microdomains that are associated with RNA regulation, such as P-bodies and stress granules. Using yeast two-hybrid assays, we have found that a protein that is known to be monomersic has a complex structure that can be assembled into a large complex that accumulates in a number of cellular domains that play important roles in the regulation of RNA expression.
Many agriculturally, evolutionarily, and medically important characters vary in a quantitative fashion. Unfortunately, the genes and sequence variants accounting for this variation remain largely unknown due to a variety of biological and technical challenges. Drosophila melanogaster contains high levels of sequence variation and low linkage disequilibrium, allowing us to dissect the effects of many causative variants within a single locus. Here, we take advantage of these features to identify and characterize many of the most important traits in the world.
Streptococcus pneumoniae remains a persistent cause of invasive and mucosal disease in humans despite the widespread use of antibiotics and vaccines. The resilience of this organism is due to its capacity for adaptation through the uptake and incorporation of new genetic material from the surrounding microbial community. DNA uptake is controlled by a tightly regulated quorum sensing system that is triggered by the extracellular accumulation of competence stimulating peptide ( CSP ). In this study, we show that the ability to adapt to the presence of a new DNA in the host genome is a key determinant of its resilience.
Poliovirus IRES-mediated translation requires the functions of certain canonical as well as non-canonical factors for the recruitment of ribosomes to the viral RNA. The interaction between cellular proteins PCBP2 and SRp20 has been previously described, and these two proteins were shown to function synergistically in viral translation. In this study, we focused on the role of SRP20, a family of splicing factors that function in constitutive and alternative splice site selection in the nucleus of eukaryotic 
The neural crest ( NC ) is a transient population of embryonic stem cells that gives rise to numerous cell types, including the glia and neurons of the peripheral and enteric nervous systems and the melanocytes of skin and hair. Mutations in genes and genetic pathways regulating NC development lead to a wide spectrum of human developmental disorders collectively called neurocristopathies. To identify molecular pathways that alter the patterning of NC cells, we established an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea ( ENU ) mu
Schistosoma spp. is a parasitic worm that is transmitted by water contact between humans and other animals. In endemic communities, infection intensities peak in early adolescence and decline thereafter, with the majority of these infections occurring amongst the world's poorest populations in sub-Saharan Africa. Although drug treatment with praziquantel has helped to reduce the burden of the disease, it is very difficult to halt transmission solely through drug treatments. This is because, like with many o
Clonorchiasis is the most widespread parasitic fluke in East Asia. It results from ingestion of its metacercariae excyst by consumption of raw or undercooked freshwater fish. Adult worms produce excretory and secretory proteins, sperms, and eggs at 3 to 4 weeks after infection. Despite several pathological changes, most infected people hardly notice this infection for a long time. Therefore an accurate diagnosis and subsequent cure in early stage of infection is essential to prevent complications caused by this parasite.
Drug resistance has emerged as a huge problem in many areas of medicine from cancer to infectious diseases. This is leading to the development of novel therapeutic strategies. In this study, we hypothesized that unbiased genome-wide screens could reveal novel candidate proteins that could be therapeutically targeted to allow effective treatment of antimicrobial drug resistant infections. To test this hypothesis we performed an unbiased genetic screen, performed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae expressing a Candi, in order to test the hypothesis that we could find novel candidates for drug-resistant drug resistance in the absence of a single candidate protein. Our results showed that the results of this screen could lead to a better understanding of the molecular basis of antibiotic resistance.
Positive-strand RNA viruses pose a great threat to public health because of their simplicity and evolvability. Introduction of a modestly-sized, mRNA-sense genome is sufficient to commandeer the cell, establish infection and produce thousands of progeny in a matter of only hours. Among the least understood aspects is the eclipse phase, the events post-entry but prior to exponential amplification of the genome and assembly of infectious virus. We use poliovirus ( PV ), a type virus in the Enterovirus genus o
Chagas disease is a neglected trypanosomiasis with enormous social and economic impact in most countries of Latin America. Despite efforts to reduce the transmission of the parasite by controlling the hematophagous triatomine insect vector, the World Health Organization estimates that 10 million people are infected worldwide, with another 25 million at risk. T. cruzi's complex life cycle involves two replicative forms: the epimastigote, in the gut of insect vectors, and the bloodstream trypomastigeote relea
The yellow fever ( YF ) virus is considered the prototype member of the family Flaviviridae, which includes several other viruses of medical importance, such as the dengue, Japanese encephalitis, tick-borne, and West Nile viruses. In the last 70 years, more than 500 million people around the world have been vaccinated with the 17D/17DD virus-attenuated vaccines with a remarkable record of safety and efficacy. However, severe side-effects resulting from vaccination continue to be reported. This study present
Vibrio cholerae, the bacterium responsible for the diarrheal illness cholera, is naturally found in the marine environment. In this niche, this pathogen forms biofilms on the shells of microscopic crustaceans. This biofilm formation on chitin is also important for promoting transmission to its human host. Chitins are the second most abundant biopolymer of the planet, and the pathway for degradation and utilization of this carbon and nitrogen source is conserved among the Vibrionaceae. Here, we use an unbias-based approach to develop a novel strategy to promote the use of a new carbon-and-nitrogen source for transmission between the bacteria and human hosts.
Dynamic modeling is essential for understanding the behavior of biological systems. A major factor that has hindered wider adoption is the lack of easy-to-use computational frameworks that facilitate access to non-expert users. In this work, we present a nonlinear programming ( NLP ) framework for the scalable solution of parameter estimation problems that arise in dynamic modeling. The proposed framework uses cutting-edge modeling and solution tools which are computationally efficient, robust, and easy to use.
West Nile virus ( WNV ) has become the leading cause of mosquito-borne epidemic encephalitis in the United States ( US ) and now poses a significant public health risk. The ability to track changes in gene expression following viral infection is paramount to understanding viral pathogenesis. This study was undertaken to evaluate the nCounter, a high-throughput digital expression system, as a means to better understand the inflammatory response against West Nile viruses in an outbred Swiss Webster ( SW ) mou.
Rabies is a zoonotic viral disease that affects the poorest and under-resourced populations living in low and middle income countries, and its incidence is on the rise in several countries. In Mozambique, rabies is preventable and effective control measures are available, but the number of deaths is still high and an estimated 59, 000 people die from Rabies each year in the world, with Asia and sub-Saharan Africa accounting for more than 95% of these deaths.Global Alliance for Rabied Control. The Global Al
Febrile seizures ( FS ) are the most common seizure disorder of early childhood, and exhibit a prevalence of 2–5% in European and North American children. Large FS families reported in the clinical literature support a genetic etiology for FS in first-degree relatives and this incidence is four times higher if there is a family history of FS. In Dravet syndrome, a normally developing child at 2 to12 months of age has convulsive seizures that are prolonged and indiscriminately lateralized. The myoclonic atta
A major problem in biology is to understand how complex tissue shapes may arise through growth. In many cases this process involves preferential growth along particular orientations raising the question of how this orientation is specified. Here we develop and apply a framework and software implementation for the alternative polarity-based axiality approach, which we call the Growing Polarised Tissue ( GPT ) framework. This framework was developed with plant growth in mind, although it may also be useful fo
During early human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infection multiple CD8+ T cell responses are elicited almost simultaneously. These responses exert strong selective pressures on different parts of HIV’s genome, and select for mutations that escape recognition and are thus beneficial to the virus. Some studies reveal that the later these escape mutations emerge, the more slowly they go to fixation. This pattern of escape rate decrease ( ERD ) can arise by distinct mechanisms. In particular, in large populat
The 5-year survival of non-small cell lung cancer patients can be as low as 1% in advanced stages. For patients with resectable tumors, the successful choice of preoperative chemotherapy is critical to eliminate micrometastasis and improve operability. In silico experimentations can suggest the optimal treatment protocol for each patient based on their own multiscale data. A determinant for reliable predictions is the a priori estimation of the drugs’ cytotoxic efficacy on cancer cells for a given treatment
Bacterial biofilms on medical implants are a major health threat due to their high levels of tolerance to multiple antibiotics. In contrast to well-characterized inherited antibiotic resistance, molecular mechanisms leading to reversible and transient antibiotic tolerance displayed by biofilm bacteria are still poorly understood. Using Escherichia coli as a model organism, we used random transposon mutagenesis to identify mutants with increased tolerance towards two bactericidal antibiotics, ticarcillin, a 
Plasmodium falciparum merozoites invade and multiply within host red blood cells and invade uninfected erythrocytes to start a new cycle of infection. Invasion of the blood stage of parasite life cycle requires specific interactions between host receptors and parasite ligands. In this study, we identify cAMP as a key regulator that triggers the timely secretion of micronseme proteins enabling receptor-engagement and invasion. We demonstrate that expo
Strongyloides stercoralis is a soil-transmitted helminth and one of the most neglected among the so-called neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ). It occurs almost world-wide, excluding only the far north and south, yet estimates about its prevalence are often little more than educated guesses. This is especially true in the tropics, where the vast majority of neglected diseases are found in tropical regions. The six most common neglected Tropical Diseases include roundworm and whipworm, whipworms ("Trichuris trichiura") and hookworms (Necator americanus" and 
Circadian rhythms are daily changes in gene expression and physiology that persist even in the absence of external environmental cues. A detailed understanding of the underlying transcriptional mechanisms is essential for the development of circadian therapeutics to be successful.
The recent increase in antibiotic resistance in pathogenic bacteria calls for new approaches to drug-target selection and drug development. Targeting the mechanisms of action of proteins involved in bacterial cell division bypasses problems associated with increasingly ineffective variants of older antibiotics; to this end, the essential bacterial cytoskeletal protein FtsZ is a promising target. Recent work on its allosteric inhibitor, PC190723, revealed in vitro activity on Staphylococcus aureus FTSZ and i
Lens epithelium derived growth factor ( LEDGF ), also known as PC4 and SFRS1 interacting protein 1 ( PSIP1 ) and transcriptional co-activator p75, is the cellular binding partner of lentiviral integrase ( IN ) proteins, and is required for efficient viral replication. We now present a crystal structure containing the N-terminal and catalytic core domains ( NTD and CCD ) of HIV-2 IN in complex with the IN binding domain ( IBD ). The structure extends the known IN–LEDGF interface, elucidating primarily the interaction of the two proteins.
Cells of different organs at different ages have an intrinsic set of kinetics that dictates their behavior. Transformation into cancer cells will inherit these kinetic traits that determine initial cell and tumor population progression dynamics. We develop a cellular automaton model that tracks the temporal evolution of the malignant subpopulation of so-called cancer stem cells ( CSC ) as these cells are exclusively able to initiate and sustain tumors. Our study suggests that cell proliferation potential i
Many zoonotic, novel infectious diseases in humans appear as sporadic infections with spatially and temporally restricted outbreaks, as seen with influenza A ( H5N1 ). Adaptation is often a key factor for successfully establishing sustained human-to-human transmission. Here we use simple mathematical models to describe different adaptation scenarios with particular reference to spatial heterogeneity within the human population. We present analytical results for the probability of emergence per introduction, and we present a mathematical model that describes the likelihood of the first introduction of a new infectious disease to the host.
Wild birds have been implicated in the emergence of human and livestock influenza viruses, including pandemic influenza and highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza. The successful prediction of viral spread and disease emergence, as well as formulation of preparedness plans, has been hampered by a critical lack of knowledge of virus movements between different host populations. Here we analyze genomic data collected from wild birds over a 34-year period of continuous systematic surveillance of North American migrato, a major migratory bird species that is responsible for a wide range of influenza-causing diseases in livestock and humans.
The hemagglutinin ( HA ) of influenza A viruses has been classified into sixteen distinct subtypes ( H1–H16 ) to date. Most neutralizing antibodies recognize the HA1 subtype, which is responsible for virus entry into target cells, virus binding to the host receptor, internalization of the virus, and subsequent membrane-fusion events. In this study, we generated a novel monoclonal antibody, MAb S139/1, that was broadly cross-reactive to a variety of HA viruses by intranasal immunization. This antibody was fo
Strongyloides stercoralis is a soil-transmitted helminth that is common in both the developing world and in underprivileged communities in developed countries in developing countries. Prevalence is frequently estimated at 30–100 million cases world wide, but due to difficulties with diagnosis, the frequent absence of symptoms in chronic cases, and the lack of extensive screening for the infection, this may be an under-estimate. Treatment with ivermectin was highly effective and resulted in a sustained fall in the prevalence of the disease, which was accompanied by the sustained rise in prevalence in inf
Prion diseases are caused by a misfolded isoform of the prion protein, PrPSc. Prion strains, when present in the same host, can interfere with each other when a long-incubation period strain ( i. e. blocking strain ) inhibits the conversion of a short-circuited strain from a medium-lived strain. The relationship between the strain-specific biochemical features and the outcome of disease are poorly understood. Here, we show that co-infection of animals with combinations of long incubation-period strains fails to cause disease. This is the first study to demonstrate that a strain that is present during the time of infection is unable to convert into a new strain and that this strain is not able to infect other animals.
Intrinsically disordered proteins/regions ( IDPs/IDRs ) are prevalent in allosteric regulation. It was previously thought that intrinsic disorder is favorable for maximizing the allostery of the system. Here, we propose a comprehensive ensemble model to compare the roles of both order-order transition ( MWC ) and disorder ( EAM ). We show that the order–disorder ( R-I ) transition has a higher probability than the disorder–EAM pathway ( disorder-T ), suggesting a complicated role in regulatory proteins.
Prostate cancer is a major cause of male death in the Western world, but few frequent genetic alterations that drive prostate cancer initiation and progression have been identified. The cytoplasmic protein β-Catenin is essential for many developmental processes and has been implicated in tumorigenesis in many tissues. However, expression studies on human prostate cancers samples are unclear on the role this protein plays in this disease. We have used in vivo genetic studies in both the normal and neoplastic prostate tumors samples to study the effect of the protein on prostate growth and development and to elucidate its role in these processes.
We explored factors relating to information and communication during the process of informed consent, and the approach that should be followed for gaining consent. The study was conducted prior to a family-based genetic study among people with podoconiosis ( non-filarial elephantiasis ) in southern Ethi
Cell division is a characteristic of biological systems, with variability of rates of proliferation and interphase duration according to the type of organism, organ, and period of life. In the immune system, cell proliferation is essential for the high turnover of diversified lymphocytes that insures dynamic cognitive function and maintenance of body integrity. Quantification and interpretation of lymphocyte dynamics remains a challenge in systems immunology, where aging and genetic peculiarities could be o
Mammalian mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) is a double-stranded circular molecule that codes for 13 of the 87 proteins that constitute the OXPHOS system. Mutations in mt-tRNA genes are known to be responsible for a wide variety of diseases in humans. To date, the only source of this type of mutations is human patients. We report here the generation and characterization of a mitochondrial tRNA pathological mutation in mouse cells, an m. 3739G>A transition in the mitochondrial mt–Ti gene. This mutation recapitulat
Dosage compensation restores a balanced network of gene expression between autosomes and sex chromosomes in males ( XY ) and females ( XX ). Strategies to achieve this vary among species. In mammals, dosage compensation is achieved by doubling expression of X-linked genes in both sexes, together with X inactivation in females. Up-regulation of the active X chromosome may be controlled by DNA sequence–based and/or epigenetic mechanisms that double the X output potentially in response to autosomal factor.
The identification of genetic loci undergoing adaptation is a central project of evolutionary biology. With the advent of sequencing technologies, a variety of statistical tests have been developed to quantify selection pressures acting on protein-coding regions. Among these, the dN/dS ratio is one of the most widely used, owing in part to its simplicity and robustness. Here, we study the relationship between selection at silent sites and the rate of substitutions at non-silent sites ( dS ), which possibly influences the number of amino acids in a protein. We show that the difference between the amount of substitution at the silent site ( silent ) and its rate at a non ( silenced ) site is likely to be due to the fact that it is silent.
A major goal in evolutionary biology is to understand how natural selection has shaped patterns of genetic variation across genomes. Studies in a variety of species have shown that neutral genetic diversity has been reduced at sites linked to those under direct selection. However, the effect of linked selection on neutral sequence divergence ( inter-species differences ) remains ambiguous. While empirical studies have reported correlations between divergence and recombination, which is interpreted as eviden
Phosphorylation is a pivotal regulatory mechanism for protein stability and activity in circadian clocks regardless of their evolutionary origin. It determines the speed and strength of molecular oscillations by acting on transcriptional activators and their repressors, which form negative feedback loops. In Drosophila, the CK2 kinase phosphorylates and destabilizes the PERIOD ( PER ) and TIMELESS ( TIM ) transcription factors, respectively. Here we show that the CLOCK ( CLK ) activator also plays a role in this process, and that it is also a key regulator of the timing and stability of protein oscillation in the circadian clock.
Trypanosoma cruzi is the etiological agent of Chagas' disease. The parasite is transmitted in nature to vertebrate hosts through hematophagous insects from the Reduviidae family. During their development within insects, the parasites undergo profound morphological changes, modulating surface molecules to enable interactions with specific insect tissues that are essential for their survival, development and successful transmission to the invertebrate host. In this study, we have investigated whether the enzyme that modulates the surface of insects is required for the parasite to survive, develop and successfully transmit to its host vertebrates.
Cytoplasmic dynein is a microtubule-dependent motor protein that functions in mitotic cells during centrosome separation, metaphase chromosome congression, anaphase spindle elongation, and chromosome segregation during mitosis. While many cytoskeletal processes are required for cytoplylase function, our knowledge of the molecular mechanisms that target and regulate this microtumor motor remains largely unknown. By screening a conditional Caenorhabditis elegans cytotoxic dynesin heavy chain mutant at a semip, we were able to identify a specific molecular mechanism that targets and regulates this motor.
During somatic differentiation, physiological DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) can drive programmed genome rearrangements ( PGR ) during which DNA repair pathways are mobilized to safeguard genome integrity. Because of their unique nuclear dimorphism, ciliates are powerful unicellular eukaryotic models to study the mechanisms involved in P GR. In Paramecium tetraurelia, the germline nucleus is transmitted to the progeny, but it is destroyed at each sexual cycle, while the diploid micronucleus ( MIC ) unde
Prion diseases typically have long pre-clinical incubation periods during which time the infectious prion particle and infectivity steadily propagate in the brain. Abnormal neuritic sprouting and synaptic deficits are apparent during the early stages of disease, however, gross neuronal loss is not detected until the onset of the clinical phase. The molecular events that accompany early neuronal damage and ultimately conclude with neuronal death remain obscure. In this study, we used laser capture microdisse, a technique that allows us to capture a large amount of laser-laser-detecting microfilm in order to study the molecular event that precedes neuronal injury and death.
Human visceral leishmaniasis, caused by infection of mice with the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani, is characterized by focal accumulation of inflammatory cells in the liver, forming discrete “granulomas” within which the parasite is eventually eliminated. To shed new light on fundamental aspects of granuloma formation and function, we have developed an in silico Petri net model that simulates the progression of disease as seen during experimental infection. The model was extensively validated by com
The transcriptional regulatory machinery of a gene can be viewed as a computational device, with transcription factor concentrations as inputs and expression level as the output. This view begs the question: what kinds of computations are possible? We analyze the accuracy and precision of these approximations, showing that they depend on different sets of parameters, and are thus independently tunable. We also consider the much more general problem of approximating analytic functions by allowing multiple tr
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is a medically important arthropod-borne virus transmitted by mosquitoes in both sylvatic and urban cycles. The Asian/Caribbean genotype is mainly endemic/epidemic among human populations, although some ECSA lineages expanded their range and are currently causing large outbreaks in several human population living in tropical regions. In the present study, we sequenced the genomes of two different genotypes simultaneously circulating in the Northeast region of Brazil. Our results show that two distinct genotypal variants of the Asian and Caribbean ( Asian ) and the African ( Caribbean ) variants are circulating at the same time in Northeast Brazil, and that these two variants have been circulating for several years.
Horizontal acquisition of DNA by bacteria dramatically increases genetic diversity and hence successful bacterial colonization of several niches, including the human host. A relevant issue is how this newly acquired DNA interacts and integrates in the regulatory networks of the bacterial cell. In enteric bacteria, the global modulator H-NS targets both core genome and HGT genes and silences gene expression in response to external stimuli such as osmolarity and temperature. Here we provide evidence that plas
Infection with species of the kinetoplastid parasite, Leishmania, results in a spectrum of diseases in man, termed the leishmaniases. These range from the non-fatal chronic cutaneous lesions arising from L. major infection to mucocutaneous disease, most commonly associated with the visceralising disease of lice and visceralised lesions in the Indian sub-continent, and the often fatal visceralisation of visceralized lesions. The last two species are generally considered to be genetically identical, with only one species being genetically related to the last species, which is thought to have the same genetic makeup as the other species.
Amphimeriasis is a fish-borne disease caused by the liver fluke Amphimerus spp. that has recently been reported as endemic in the tropical Pacific side of Ecuador with a high prevalence in humans and domestic animals. The diagnosis is based on the stool examination to identify parasite eggs, but it lacks sensitivity. Additionally, the morphology of the eggs may be confounded with other liver and intestinal flukes. No immunological or molecular methods have been developed to date. We have developed and evalu
Macroautophagy is a lysosomal self-degrading pathway in eukaryotic cells. The fusion of autophagosomes with late endosomes/lysosome fusion is the critical step of this process. In metazoans, the SNARE Syntaxin17 ( Syx17 ) forms a complex with Snap29 and Vamp7/8 in order to promote fusion via multiple interactions with the tethering complex HOPS. Here we show that Ykt6 is essential for fusion-competent assembly in Drosophila larval fat cells, and that the zero layer arginine is not required for this function.
Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae ( NTHI ) is a commensal of the human nasopharnyx, yet causes opportunistic diseases such as conjunctivitis and sinusitis, exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, complications of cystic fibrosis and chronic and acute otitis media. As a first line of innate immune defense, AMPs serve to limit bacterial colonization of mucosal surfaces and are a critical component to control bacterial infection. The Sap ( sensitivity to antimicrobial peptides ) ABC transporte
Many transcription factors have unusually short half-lives compared to other cellular proteins. Here, we explore the utility of active degradation in shaping how the multi-antibiotic resistance activator MarA coordinates its downstream targets. We control a variety of stress response genes in Escherichia coli by knocking down the protease that targets it via CRISPRi. Our experimental and analytical results show that the amount of coordinated diversity that a regulatory protein can achieve can impact both th
Leishmania mexicana is a protozoan parasite that is transmitted by female sandflies and causes a wide spectrum of diseases ranging from self-healing cutaneous lesions to fatal systemic disease. Resistance to infection with the parasite typically requires the presence of an antigen-specific type 1 immune response comprising of IFN-γ/TNF-α/IL-2 producing CD4+ T cells as well as a diminished TH1 response. By contrast, in the present study footpad infection of mice with L. major resulted in a healing r
The mammalian pancreas is a branched organ that does not exhibit stereotypic branching patterns, similarly to most other glands. Inside branches, it contains a network of ducts that undergo a transition from unconnected microlumen to a mesh-like structure. This ductal remodeling is poorly understood, both on a microscopic and macroscopic level. In this article, we quantify the network properties at different developmental stages. We find that the pancreatic network exhibits stereotypically traits at each developmental stage, similar to the rest of the glands in the body.
Kinesins are a family of ATP-dependent molecular motor proteins that drive intracellular transport by coupling ATP hydrolysis to conformational changes that mediate directed movement along microtubules. Characterizing these distinct conformations and their interconversion mechanism is essential to determining an atomic-level model of kinesin action. Here we report a comprehensive principal component analysis of 114 experimental structures along with the results of conventional and accelerated molecular dyna, which are the first step in the development of a molecular-scale model that describes the kinetic-motor-protein interaction between ATP and protein kinases.
The bacterial Lux system is used as a gene expression reporter. It is fast, sensitive and non-destructive, enabling high frequency measurements. Originally developed for bacteria, it has also been adapted for eukaryotic cells, and can be used for whole cell biosensors, or in real time with live animals without the need for euthanasia. However, correct interpretation of bioluminescent data is limited. We have developed a computational approach that, for the first time, allows users of Lux assays to infer gen from their own data. This approach has the potential to improve the accuracy and accuracy of the analysis of data and to provide a more accurate and accurate interpretation.
The replication of enteroviruses 71 ( EV71 ) and coxsackievirus A16 ( CVA16 ), which are the major cause of hand, foot and mouth disease ( HFMD ) in children, can be inhibited by the capsid binder GPP3. Here, we present the crystal structure of the inhibitor in complex with the uncoating inhibitor and show that it has a similar binding mode. Furthermore, the structural and in silico results are analyzed in the context of a broad-spectrum antiviral activity of these molecules.
The immune response to fungal and Gram-positive infections is regulated by the serpin-family inhibitor Necrotic. Following immune-challenge, a proteolytic cascade is activated which signals through the Toll receptor. Toll activation results in a range of antibiotic peptides being synthesised in the fat-body and exported to the haemolymph. As with mammalian serpins, this process is rapid, but its site of degradation has been unclear. By “freezing” endocytosis with a temperature sensitive Dynamin mutation, w
The left-right ( LR ) asymmetry of internal organs is one of the most fascinating features of bilaterian development. In the past two decades, studies of molecular pathways controlling LR axis establishment have broadened our knowledge regarding the dissimilar and conserved mechanisms among different animal models. Here, we revealed that BMP signaling is activated in the left coelomic pouch, specifically in veg2 lineage, but not in small micromeres. By perturbing the expression patterns of genes related to 
The onset of human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) lytic infection is strictly synchronized with the host cell cycle. Infected G0/G1 cells support viral immediate early ( IE ) gene expression and proceed to the G1/S boundary where they finally arrest. During latent infection IE gene is also inhibited, and for reactivation to occur this block to IE expression must be overcome. It is only poorly understood which viral and/or cellular activities maintain the block-to-cell cycle or latency-associated viral IE-expressi
Dendritic cells ( DCs ) represent the most effective naturally-occurring antigen-presenting cells and have critical roles for inducing and maintaining HIV-1-specific T cell responses. However, the mechanisms that facilitate the induction of effective immune responses in elite controllers remain undefined. In this study, we demonstrate that the immune recognition of HIV in cDCs from elite control subjects leads to rapid and sustained production of type I interferons and upregulation of several antiviral effe
Obesity has a strong genetic component, but few of the genes that predispose to obesity are known. In order to facilitate such screens, we have developed a simple buoyancy-based screening method for identifying mutant Drosophila larvae with increased organismal fat levels. Among these was a sirtuin family member, Sir2. Sirtuins regulat
Asymmetric cell division is essential to generate cellular diversity. In many animal cells, the cleavage plane lies perpendicular to the mitotic spindle at the end of mitosis, and it is the positioning of the spindles that dictates the size and fate of daughter cells. Although some properties of this process are conserved between distantly related model species and different cell types, little is known about the evolutionary robustness and the mechanisms underlying this event. We recorded the first embryoni
The evolution of new gene networks is a primary source of genetic innovation that allows bacteria to explore and exploit new niches, including pathogenic interactions with host organisms. For example, the archetypal DNA binding protein, OmpR, is identical between Salmonella Typhimurium and Escherichia coli, but regulatory specialization has resulted in different environmental triggers and largely divergent regulatory regulons. We found that the expression of the ompRs gene is elevated by acid pH but not in 
Chlamydia trachomatis is the most prevalent sexually transmitted bacterial pathogen, infecting an estimated 92 million people a year. The pathogenic bacteria employ a wide range of strategies to avoid elimination by their host. Targeting histone modifications could allow the bacteria to subvert host defense mechanisms. To date, no such effectors have been found to target the host cell nucleus. In this study, we characterized the chlamydial SET domain protein CT737. We found the protein to be secreted from b, and we found that it was secretized from the b cytoplasm.
Stature is a classical and highly heritable complex trait, with 80%–90% of variation explained by genetic factors. In recent years, genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have successfully identified many common additive variants influencing human height; however, little attention has been given to the potential role of recessive genetic effects. Here, we investigated the heritability of height by an analysis of inbreeding depression on adult height in over 35, 000 people from 21 different population samp. We found that inbred depression was associated with increased height, and that the effects of the depression were not well understood.
Innate defenses against Plasmodium parasites play a vital role in the clearance of red blood cells ( iRBCs ) in murine and human infections. This innate response is related to the functional activity of monocytes ( MO ) - macrophages and/or polymorphonuclear leukocytes. These myeloid cells can also modulate the inflammatory process and trigger the adaptive immune responses. We hypothesized that discrete MO subpopulations are induced during malaria infection and associated with anti-parasitic activity. In th
Schistosoma mansoni infection has been associated with an increased HIV prevalence in humans and SHIV incidence in primate models. We hypothesized that immune activation from this gastrointestinal mucosa infection would increase highly HIV-susceptible CD4 T cell subsets in the blood and the foreskin through common mucosal homing. Foreskin tissue and blood were obtained from 34 HIV and malaria-uninfected Ugandan men who volunteered for elective circumcision. Th17 and Th1 cells from both the skin and foreskin were derived from these men and from their foreskin, respectively, through the use of a common blood- and skin-homing process.
Filarial nematodes maintain a mutualistic relationship with the endosymbiont Wolbachia, which is responsible for the development, fertility and viability of adult female worms. However, little is known concerning the basis for this mutualist relationship. Here we demonstrate using whole mount confocal microscopy that an immediate response to bacterial depletion is extensive apoptosis in the adult germline, and in somatic cells of the embryos, microfilariae and fourth-stage larvae ( L4 ). Surprisingly, apoptotic cell death is a common feature of Filaria and other larval and larva-like worms, but the mechanism of this relationship is not well understood.
The malaria-causing blood stage of Plasmodium falciparum requires extracellular pantothenate for proliferation. The parasite converts this protein into coenzyme A ( CoA ) via five enzymes, the first being a protein kinase ( PfpanK ). In this study, we have used continuous drug-pressuring to generate several-fold resistant to these antimalarials. Whole-genome sequencing revealed mutations in one of two putative Pfpank genes in each resistant line. These mutations significantly alter the activity of the protein-kinase, which is a key enzyme in the parasite’s ability to proliferate in blood.
We performed a meta-analysis in African American individuals from four cohorts to identify genetic variants associated with the length of the PR interval duration. Genotyping was performed for 2. 8 million single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) using combined YRI and CEU HapMap phas
Tomato mosaic virus ( ToMV ), like other eukaryotic positive-strand RNA viruses, replicates its genomic RNA in replication complexes formed on intracellular membranes. Previous studies showed that a host seven-pass transmembrane protein TOM1 is necessary for efficient replication. Here we show that the small GTP-binding protein ARL8 is co-purified with a FLAG epitope-tagged RNA polymerase protein from solubilized membranes of Nicotiana tabacum cells. In an in vitro tobamovirus RNA translation-replication s, we demonstrate that this protein is essential for the efficient transcriptional replication of the virus. We also show in a virus-induced in-vitrovirus-translational-receptor-mediated virus translation and translation s.
Inhibition is ubiquitous in invertebrate and vertebrate neural networks, and serves many different functions throughout the central nervous system. Despite difference in the anatomy or functions of neuronal circuits containing inhibition, two basic motifs repeatedly emerge: feed-forward and feedback. In the locust, it was proposed that a subset of lateral horn interneurons ( LHNs ) provide feedforward inhibition onto Kenyon cells ( KCs ) to maintain their sparse firing—a property critical for olfactory lea
Rabies is an almost invariably fatal form of acute progressive encephalomyelitis that kills an estimated 59, 000 humans each year, mostly in low-income Asian and African countries. This zoonosis is transmitted to humans by rabid animals biting, scratching or licking mucous membranes or damaged skin. Moreover, some cases of human-to-human transmission have been described following the transplantation of organs or tissues from donors with undiagnosed rabies following aerosol contamination. The principal etiol
The tsetse and trypanosomiasis problem to man and his livestock lies at the heart of Africa's poverty. Lack of funding and the complexity of the endeavour, particularly in the vast rainforest areas, may lead to slower progress than originally anticipated. Therefore, improving food security and income of resource-poor farmers in these areas needs to be urgently addressed. Keeping valuable stock confined to pens ( zero-grazing scheme ) is a strategy to reduce the risk of tick-borne diseases. In protecting the
There is a growing movement to encourage reproducibility and transparency practices in the scientific community, including public access to raw data and protocols, the conduct of replication studies, systematic integration of evidence in systematic reviews, and the documentation of funding and potential conflicts of interest. In this survey, we assessed the current status of reproducible and transparent addressing these indicators in a random sample of 441 biomedical journal articles published in 2000–2014.
Inhalation of Yersinia pestis causes primary pneumonic plague, a highly lethal syndrome with mortality rates approaching 100%. The mechanism and host cell types involved in this phenomenon remain unknown. Using a murine intranasal infection model, our laboratory demonstrated that Y. pesti creates a unique protective environment in the lungs of mice that allows for the growth of typically avirulent organisms. We also demonstrate that neutrophils are ultimately responsible for severe necrotizing pneumonia dur
Visceral leishmaniasis is a chronic and progressive systemic disease characterized by fever, weight loss and hepatosplenomegaly; it may lead to death if left untreated. To control the disease, early diagnosis and treatment are essential; however, due to the lack of specificity of VL clinical symptoms, the infection should be confirmed by parasite finding or antibody-detection tests. Blood samples were collected in 2001 from 136 cohort participants ( 97 positive and 39 negatives, PCR/hybridization carried ou ), and the results of the analysis of blood samples in the 2001 cohort of 136 participants showed that the parasite was found to be a positive or a negative parasite.
Retrotransposons are highly prevalent in mammalian genomes due to their ability to amplify in pluripotent cells or developing germ cells. Host mechanisms are important for limiting the accumulation of the repetitive elements in the genome during evolution. However, although silencing of selected individual retrotranspons can be relatively well-studied, many mammalian sequences are seldom analysed. Here we show, and experimentally verify, that cryptic repetitive element probes present in Illumina and Affymet have been present for a long time in human genomes. We show that these probes are present at the end of a sequence and that they are likely to be present during the evolution of mammalian cells and developing embryos.
Cryptochromes are photolyase-like photoreceptors regulating photomorphogenesis in plants and the circadian clock in animals. Arabidopsis cryptochrome 2 ( CRY2 ) mediates light control of flowering time through interaction with CIB1, which was isolated in a blue light differentiated yeast-two-hybrid screen. In this study, we show that at least three additional members of the bHLH subfamily 18, including the LOV-domain/F-box proteins FKF/ZTL, and phytochromes, act redundantly to activate the transcription of 
Many U. S. -bound refugees travel from countries where intestinal parasites ( hookworm, Trichuris trichuria, Ascaris lumbricoides, and Strongyloide stercoralis ) are endemic. These infections are rare in the United States and may be misdiagnosed, leading to potentially serious consequences. To better remediate intestinal parasitoses in arriving refugees, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) began overseas presumptive treatment programs in some refugee populations in 1999. Presumptive treat
Microsporidia represent a large phylum of obligate intracellular pathogens related to fungi, which can infect a diverse array of hosts from protists to humans. The mechanisms responsible for tissue tropism are broad and potentially multifactorial, and can involve features such as access, specific receptor/ligand interactions, pathogen competence for growth in particular tissue niches, or host defense. Understanding how infection occurs preferentially in specific host tissues is a key aspect of understanding
Cockayne syndrome is an autosomal recessive disease associated with numerous developmental and neurological defects, sun sensitivity and the appearance of premature aging. The Cockayne chromosome complementation group B ( CSB ) protein is essential for transcription-coupled DNA repair and it is also implicated in base-excision DNA replication. However, the extent to which this activity is utilized in transcription is unknown. In this study, we use a collection of in vitro and in vivo assays to characterize the function of this protein in the repair of base DNA. We show that the activity of the protein contributes to the development of a number of neurological and neurodegenerative diseases, such as birth defects and aging in young children.
While population studies have resulted in detailed maps of genetic variation in humans, to date there are few robust studies of epigenetic variation. In this study, we identified clusters of CpGs with high inter-individual variation, termed Variably Methylated Regions ( VMRs ), in five purified cell types from two human cohorts. While the majority of DNA methylation variation has high heritability, a subset of sites within the genome show highly correlated variation and are enriched for specific transcripti
Dengue virus non-structural protein 1 ( NS1 ) has been identified as an early marker for acute infection, and is typically present between days 1–9 post-onset of illness but following seroconversion it can be difficult to detect in serum. To evaluate the clinical performance of a newly developed Panbio® Dengue Early Rapid test, evaluated both alone and in combination with a commercial IgM/IgG rapid test at two separate study sites in Southeast Asia, the performance was similar with 68. 9% sensitivity and 96% specificity. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of the new test in a single-stage study site in the Southeast Asian region of Asia and compared its performance with the commercial test.
RNA molecules play diverse roles in many of the most basic cellular processes. In the translation process, for instance, the protein coding ‘message’ is encoded in a messenger RNA ( mRNA ) and transfer RNAs ( tRNAs ) are involved in this catalytic process. A range of other non-protein-coding RNA molecules have been identified, hinting at the possibility that many functionally important classes of RNA are still to be discovered. RNA structure prediction methods, however, assume that there is a unique functio
Plant immunity protects plants from numerous potentially pathogenic microbes. The biological network that controls plant inducible immunity must function effectively even when network components are targeted and disabled by pathogen effectors. Networks rich in buffering rely on interactions within the network, but these mechanisms are difficult to study by simple genetic means. Through a network reconstitution strategy, in which we disassemble and stepwise reasssemble the plant immune system that mediates plant innate immunity, we are able to gain a better understanding of the mechanisms that underlie plant immunity.
In the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, all parts of the visual system develop from monolayered neuroepithelial sheets. In a first step patterning mechanisms subdivide the seemingly uniform epithelia into domains allowing an increase of neuronal diversity in a tightly controlled spatial and temporal manner. Here, we characterize a genetic network that regulates the balance between larval eye and optic lobe precursors, as well as between primary and secondary photoreceptor ( PR ) precursor types. We show t
Antimicrobial peptides ( AMPs ) are key effector molecules of the innate immune system protecting the human body from bacterial overgrowth, thereby retaining a balanced microbiota and fending off commensals and pathogens. Here, we explore these antimicrobial mechanisms using electron microscopy. We detected a so far unknown net-like structure surrounding bacteria, which were treated with the reduced but not the oxidized form of hBD1. A transmigration assay demonstrated that the same peptide provides distinc
Lowe syndrome and Dent-2 disease are caused by mutations of the inositol 5-phosphatase OCRL1. Despite our increased understanding of cellular functions, the underlying basis for the renal tubulopathy seen in both human disorders, of which a hallmark is low molecular weight proteinuria, is currently unknown. In this study, we show that the zebrafish pronephric tubule is defective in endocytosis, a model for human diseases such as Lowe syndrome. We also observe a reduction in levels of megalin and its accumulation in the tubules of Lowe-Dent-1 disease, which is a human disease that is associated with the accumulation of a protein-coding enzyme, in an important model organism.
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is a mosquito borne viral zoonosis that affects both livestock and wild ruminants. In recent years, evidence of transmission during inter-epidemic periods in parts of Africa has increasingly been reported. The disease is known to occur in cycles of 5–15 years in the Eastern Africa region, following unusual high precipitations that lead to sustained flooding, but can be revealed where active serological surveillance is regularly done in either livestock or human populat
Trypanosoma cruzi is the etiologic agent of Chagas disease. Although this is not a free-living organism it has conserved a contractile vacuole complex to regulate its osmolarity. This obligate intracellular pathogen is, in addition, dependent on surface proteins to invade its hosts. Here we used a combination of genetic and biochemical approaches to delineate the contribution of the CVC to the traffic of glycosylphosphatidylinositol ( GPI ) -anchored proteins ( TcTS ), mucins, and trypomastigote small surfa. We used genetic, biochemical and genetic approaches in delineating the contributions of this CVD to this traffic.
Rabies is an acute viral disease, caused by viruses belonging to the Lyssavirus genus of the Rhabdoviridae family. Despite the fact that the disease is completely preventable and that recent massive campaigns targeting its elimination were launched in endemic regions, rabies continues to be listed as a neglected tropical disease by the World Health Organization ( WHO ). The current recommendations for post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ), including vaccination, are highly effective when administered promptly a
The salience network ( SN ) plays a crucial role in cognition and emotion via detection and attentional capture of goal-relevant stimuli and facilitation of access to appropriate cognitive resources across a wide range of cognitive tasks. The SN is anchored in the anterior insula and the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, which are among the most commonly activated regions in human neuroimaging studies. Here, we leverage high temporal-resolution fMRI data obtained from the Human Connectome Project ( HCP ) co
Nonenveloped viruses are generally released by the timely lysis of the host cell by a poorly understood process. Simian Vacuolating virus 40 ( SV40 ) is the first eukaryotic virus sequenced over thirty years ago and studies of this virus have advanced our understanding of nuclear transport, transcriptional regulation, and cell transformation. Therefore, it serves as an excellent paradigmatic virus to help expand our knowledge about the undefined stages of viral release.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) represents the most important human mosquito-borne disease worldwide. Each year, an estimated 96 million people present clinical signs of the disease. Infection may be asymptomatic or can be manifested as a non-differentiate febrile, marked mainly by myalgia, headache and retroorbital pain. The most severe forms of infection are characterized by plasma leakage, thrombocytopenia and hemorrhage, which can evolve to hypovolemic shock. Dengues virus is the causative agent of dengued fever, a disease that is transmitted by mosquito bites of infected mosquitoes. Dengue fever is a major public health concern in the developing world.
In Gram-positive bacteria, cell-to-cell communication mainly relies on extracellular signaling peptides, which elicit a response either indirectly by triggering a two-component phosphorelay, or directly, by binding to cytoplasmic effectors. The latter comprise the RNPP family ( Rgg and original regulators Rap, NprR, PrgX and PlcR ) whose members regulate important bacterial processes such as sporulation, conjugation, and virulence. In this manuscript, we elucidate the structure-function relationship of the RNA-protein interaction peptide ( RNAPP ) with the intracellular signal peptidoglycan ( P ), whose member are the members of a family of regulators ( Rap and NrGX ). We show that the interaction between the two substrates is regulated by the same mechanism.
The pentameric ligand-gated ion channels ( pLGICs ) constitute a large family of ionotropic neurotransmitter receptors that are ubiquitously expressed in the animal kingdom. In vertebrates the family encompasses cation selective serotonin and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors ( nAChRs ) and anion selective GABA and glycine receptors. All family members share a conserved molecular architecture and a similar functional behavior. Here we describe a study on the functional characterization of ELIC by electrophy, a process that involves electrophysics and electrochemistry to elucidate the molecular and functional properties of the receptor.
Asthma is a common allergic lung disease frequently affecting individuals with a prior history of eczema/atopic dermatitis ( AD ) ; however, the mechanism underlying the progression from AD to asthma ( the so-called “Atopic march” ) is unclear. Here we show that, like humans with AD, mice with skin-barrier defects develop AD-like skin inflammation and are susceptible to allergic asthma. Furthermore, we demonstrate that thymic stromal lymphopoietin ( TSLP ), overexpressed by skin keratinocytes, is the system’s immune system.
A fundamental step towards obtaining a systems-level understanding of organisms is to obtain an accurate inventory of cellular components and their interconnectivities. The genome sequence and in silico predictions of gene annotation are the starting points for assembling a network. Recently, multi-omic data generation and analysis studies have revealed an abundance of genomic features that are not detected computationally such as transcription start site ( TSS ), promoters, non-coding RNAs, ribosome bindin. In addition to the transcription starting site and promoter, promoter and promoters ( promoters ) have been found not to be detected in the genomic data.
Visual perception is defined as the result of revealing a cause to visual awareness, while inference is the process of assigning a probability to each cause at any time given an input. As vision is an under-constrained or ill-posed problem, input features such as local color, orientation, luminance contrast, and spatial scale of image patches are encoded by the activities of retinal and V1 neurons with various input sensitivities. The neural representation of inputs is then used to infer the possible object.
Cooperation based on the production of costly common goods is observed throughout nature. This is puzzling, as cooperation is vulnerable to exploitation by defectors which enjoy a fitness advantage by consuming the common good without contributing fairly. However, population collapse implies small population size, which, in a structured population, is known to favor cooperation. Developing the SERS theory into an evolutionary strategy yields the "Mimicry and R" hypothesis. In the context of the study of how a population is structured, the subjective expected relative similarity (SERS ) theory can be developed into a strategy.
Chronic pulmonary infections with Pseudomonas aeruginosa severely impair the quality of life and life expectancy of cystic fibrosis patients and are a major factor contributing to their mortality. The mucosal barrier represents a formidable challenge for colonization and bacterial-mediated damage. Thus, infections develop only in patients with altered epithelial cell barriers, including direct trauma, indwelling catheters, or patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy. Regarding CF, the sequence of events pr
The Drosophila embryonic gonad is assembled from two distinct cell types, the Primordial Germ Cells ( PGCs ) and the Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells ( SGPs ). The G protein γ subunit 1 ( shf ) encodes a secreted protein that facilitates the long distance transmission of Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of the sending cells in the wing imaginal disc. Shf is expressed during embryogenesis, and loss- and gain-of-function experiments demonstrate that hmgcr plays a key role in long-distance transmission.
Understanding the mechanisms underlying protection from infection or immune control over HIV replication remains an enormous challenge in the development of efficacious HIV vaccines and immunotherapies. Here, measurements of granzyme B target cell activity and HIV-1-infected CD4+ T-cell elimination were applied for the first time to identify antiviral activities in recipients of a replication incompetent adenovirus serotype 5 ( Ad5 ) recombinant vaccine. We observed readily detectable cytotoxic responses in a vaccine recipient who was infected with an incompetent virus that replicates at the same time as the virus infects the infected recipient.
There is evidence that the sharing of intentions was an important factor in the evolution of humans’ unique cognitive abilities. Here we formally model the coevolution of jointly intentional behavior and cumulative culture, showing that rapid techno-cultural advance goes hand in hand with the emergence of the ability to participate in joint intentional activity. Conversely, in a situation where there are no opportunities for significant technological improvement, this ability is selecte
Male fertility requires the continuous production of high quality motile spermatozoa in abundance. Alterations in all three metrics cause oligoasthenoteratozospermia, the leading cause of human sub/infertility. Post-mitotic spermatogenesis inclusive of several meiotic stages is transcriptionally inert, indicating the potential importance for the post-transcriptional microRNA ( miRNA ) gene-silencing pathway therein. In an expression screen we identified two miRNAs of the miR-34 family that are specifically 
Although Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 ( EcN ) has been used therapeutically for over a century, the determinants of its probiotic properties remain elusive. In this study, we used our knowledge of the biosynthetic pathway of colibactin and other secondary metabolites produced directly or indirectly by the pks island to specifically decouple the genotoxic activity from the antagonistic activity. We successfully decoupled the antibacterial activity and the fungal-siderophore-Mcc biosynthesis pathways. This co
Cryptococcus neoformans, an AIDS-defining opportunistic pathogen, is the leading cause of fungal meningitis worldwide and is responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths each year. Cryptococcal glycans are essential for the normal development, growth, and viability of organisms across all kingdoms of life. Nucleotide sugar transporters are membrane proteins that solve this topological problem, by exchanging nucleotide sugars for their corresponding nucleoside phosphates. The major virulence factor of C. 
More than half of the world's population is infected with one or several neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) concurrently, with helminth infections showing the highest prevalence rates. There is a risk of missing high endemicity areas and distributing drugs to places which are not at highest priority, hence wasting human and financial resources. Consequently, integrated control efforts should be tailored to a given epidemiological setting. Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs ) are
Tuberculosis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( MTB ) are two major human infectious diseases that affect approximately one third of the world's population. Chronic helminth infections induce a Th2 immune shift and establish an immunoregulatory milieu in the host. As both of these responses can suppress Th1 immunity, which is necessary for control of infection, we hypothesized that chronic filaria infections may contribute to the development of a protective immune response. Co-infection studies were conducted
Insects utilize diverse families of ion channels to respond to environmental cues and control mating, feeding, and the response to threats. Although degenerin/epithelial sodium channels ( DEG/ENaC ) represent one of the largest families in Drosophila melanogaster, the physiological functions of these proteins are still poorly understood. We have identified pickpocket 23 ( ppk23 ) as a gene that is enriched in gustatory sensory neurons that play a role in normal male-female courtship behavior but not feeding.
Mitochondria from diverse phyla, including protozoa, fungi, higher plants and humans, import tRNAs from the cytosol in order to ensure proper mitochondrial translation. Despite the broad occurrence of this process, our understanding of tRNA import mechanisms is fragmentary, and crucial questions about their regulation remain unanswered. In the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas, a precise correlation was found between the mitochondrial codon usage and the nature and amount of imported nRNA. This led to th
Diabetes is an increasing problem worldwide; almost 30 million people, nearly 10% of the population, in the United States are diagnosed with diabetes. Another 84 million are prediabetic, and without intervention, up to 70% are expected to develop type 2 diabetes within 4 years. Current methods for quantifying blood glucose dysregulation in diabetes are limited by reliance on single-time-point measurements or on average measures of overall glycemia and neglect glucose dynamics. We have used continuous glucos as a means of measuring blood-glucose-dysfunction in diabetic patients and for the first time in a long time, we have shown that glucose is dysregulated in blood.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) cascades are highly conserved signaling modules that control diverse signal transduction pathways in eukaryotes, including defenses against infection. In this study, we show that EDR1 negatively regulates the MKK4/MKK5-MPK3/ MPK6 kinases cascade pathway in Arabidopsis. We found that the edr1 mutants have highly activated PAMP-induced defense responses, and higher levels of protein levels than wild-type mutants. Furthermore, the mpk3, mkk4 and Mkk5 mutations suppress. Moreover, they have higher amounts of proteins in the host, suggesting that they are more likely to be exposed to infection by the plant pathogen.
Infectious diseases are one of the primary healthcare problems worldwide, leading to millions of deaths annually. To develop effective control and prevention strategies, we need reliable computational tools to understand disease dynamics and to predict future cases. We developed a computational framework based on Gaussian processes to perform spatiotemporal prediction of infectious diseases and exploited the special structure of similarity matrices in our formulation to obtain a very efficient implementatio
Rift Valley fever virus ( RVFV ) is an important mosquito-borne viral zoonosis in Africa and the Middle East that causes human deaths and significant economic losses due to huge incidences of death and abortion among infected livestock. In this paper, we propose an almost periodic three-patch model to investigate the transmission dynamics of the disease pathogen in Northeastern Africa. Our numerical results show that human activities, including those associated with the Eid al Adha feast, along with a combi
Anthrax is a soil-borne, bacterial zoonosis that is considered a threat in areas with a weakened public health system. The disease has a long history in Azerbaijan, although it is bordered by endemic and hyperendemic countries. In 1996, Azerbaijan experienced a series of livestock anthrax outbreaks that resulted in over 400 animal cases and more than 70 human cases. We used a combination of spatial analysis, cluster detection, and weighted least squares segmented regression to evaluate changes in the spatia of the animal and human populations that were affected by the disease.
Voltage-gated potassium ( KV ) channels are membrane-embedded proteins that open and close their central ion-conducting pore in response to changes in the voltage across the membrane. Polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) are essential parts of cell membrane phospholipids of heart cells and neurons and have been found to modulate channel activation via a proposed electrostatic mechanism. While the fatty acid modulatory effects on channel function remain an open question, the molecular mechanism by which PUFs are modulated is still a mystery.
The protozoan parasite Cryptosporidium parvum is responsible for significant disease burden among children in developing countries. In addition, the disease itself can result in chronic and life-threatening enteritis in AIDS patients, and the currently available drugs lack efficacy in treating these severe conditions. The discovery and development of novel anti-crypto-parasitic therapeutics has been hampered by the poor experimental tractability of this pathogen. While the genome sequencing effort has led to the identification and discovery of a novel drug against this parasite, it has not been able to overcome the lack of efficacy of these drugs.
Tooth development is a highly heritable process which relates to other growth and developmental processes, and which interacts with the development of the entire craniofacial complex. Abnormalities in tooth development are common, with tooth agenesis being the most common developmental anomaly in humans. We performed a genome-wide association study of time to first tooth eruption and number of teeth at one year in 4, 564 individuals from the 1966 Northern Finland Birth Cohort ( NFBC1966 ) and 1, 518 individ. Tooth growth in the brain is highly Heritable and is associated with other development processes.
The trisomy of human chromosome 21 ( Hsa21 ) causes Down syndrome ( DS ), which is the most common viable human aneuploidy. The complete monosomy is lethal, and only partial or mosaic-monosomous regions are seen. Both conditions lead to variable physiological abnormalities with constant intellectual disability, locomotor deficits, reduced muscle tone. To search for dosage-sensitive genes involved in DS and M21 phenotypes, we created two new mouse models: the Ts3Yah carrying a deletion of the Hspa13-App inte and the M1-M21-HspA13 gene. Our results show that the two mice are genetically identical and carry a mutation in a gene encoding for the gene that encodes the protein that causes the disease.
G protein-gated K+ channels ( GIRK; Kir3 ) are important transducers of inhibitory neurotransmitter effects in heart and brain. They regulate heartbeat, neuronal excitability and plasticity, analgesia, alcohol and drug effects, and are implicated in a number of disorders such as epilepsy, Down syndrome, bipolar disorder, atrial fibrillation and primary aldosteronism. In the present work, we have developed a quantitative model for Ibasal and Ievoked, which uses experimentally determined micro- and macroscopi
Plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas bacteria secrete transcription activator-like effectors ( TALEs ) into host cells, where they act as transcriptional activators on plant target genes to support bacterial virulence. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for predicting bacterial target sequences based on the quantitative data generated over the last years. Our approach accounts for recent findings concerning the flexible strand orientation of target boxes relative to the transcription start of the downstream target gene. We propose our approach to account for the flexibility strand orientations of targets in the past years and to predict the genomic sequence of a target target.
All the possible non-synonymous amino acid changes potentially affecting the human mitochondrial DNA. Only a tiny subset was functionally evaluated with certainty so far, while the pathogenicity of the vast majority was only assessed in-silico by software predictors. Since these tools proved to be rather incongruent, we have designed and implemented APOGEE, a machine-learning algorithm that outperforms all existing prediction methods in estimating the harmfulness of mitochondrial variants, as well as its cl
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most common mosquito-transmitted viral infection, infecting approximately 390 million people and causing 500, 000 hospitalizations every year. Thrombocytopenia, a common feature observed in both mild and severe dengues disease, is correlated with disease severity and is considered a predictive biomarker of severe disease. However, the mechanisms that cause thrombinocytosis are not fully understood. In this study, we first demonstrated that nonstructural protein 1 ( NS1 ), which is known to be involved in the development of the disease-causing mechanism, can be used to predict the severity of a severe infection.
Visceral smooth muscle, blood volume, and mean arterial pressure are regulated by a series of dynamic control loops, which involve the arginine vasopressin ( AVP ) system, the atrial natriuretic peptide system ( ANP ) and the renin-angiotensin–aldosterone ( RAAS ) systems. Our loop analysis revealed the concurrent presence of two different regulatory mechanisms that perform the same qualitative function: one affects blood pressure by regulating vasoconstriction, while the other is controlled by the activati
Thromboembolic disease is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. In the last several years there have been a number of studies attempting to identify mechanisms that stop thrombus growth. This paper identifies a novel mechanism related to formation of a fibrin cap. The network permeability and the protein diffusivity were shown to be important factors determining the transport of proteins through the network. Our previous in vivo studies in mice have shown that stabilized non-occluding throme
Invariant natural killer T ( iNKT ) cells are recognized to influence many different immunological conditions including autoimmune disease, asthma and allergy, anti-tumor response, graft-versus-host disease and infection. However, how they limit microbial growth is unknown in most cases. In this study, we used a mouse model of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection to study the effector function of immune cells that are activated during infection, and we found that the activation of these cells was CD
The opportunistic fungal pathogen Candida albicans is a common component of human intestinal flora. To gain insight into the activities of the commensal microorganisms that are important for host colonization or disease, studies of genes expressed by fungi grown within a host were studied. The EFH1 gene encoding a putative transcription factor was highly expressed in the intestinal tract. Counterintuitively, an Efg1p-independent expression of several genes was observed during growth within the murine inte
Immunization with irradiated sporozoites is currently the most effective vaccination strategy against liver stages of malaria parasites, yet the mechanisms underpinning the success of this approach are unknown. Here we show that the complete development of protective CD8+ T cell responses requires prolonged antigen presentation. Using TCR transgenic cells specific for the malaria circumsporozoite protein, a leading vaccine candidate, we found that antigen persists for over 8 weeks after immunization—a remar
Most treatments of leishmaniasis require hospitalization and present side effects or parasite resistance; innovations in drug formulation/reposition can overcome these barriers and must be pursued to increase therapeutic alternatives. Therefore, we tested polymyxin B ( polB ) potential to kill Leishmania amazonensis, adsorbed or not in PBCA nanoparticles, which could augment PolB internalization in infected macrophages. Nanoparticles were fabricated by anionic polymerization, analyzed by Dynamic Light Scatt, and then subjected to a dynamic light microscopy to determine whether they could be used as a nanoparticle to augment the internalizing capacity of the parasite. We tested the ability of a polymerized polymer to inhibit the infection by the bacterium and to enhance its internalized capacity.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is considered an extremely serious public health problem in Latin America. In Brazil since the 1980's, an average of 1, 500 cases was reported each year in Brazil and between 2000–2009 the average increased to 3, 480 cases annually. The disease is systemic and characterized clinically by prolonged fever, weight loss, hypergammaglobulinemia and pancytopenia, and in the absence of treatment, the disease may have fatal consequences. Furthermore, lethality from visceral L. infantum is a common cause of fever and weight gain and is associated with increased body mass index and increased morbidity and mortality.
The Arabidopsis regulatory leucine-rich repeat RLK ( LRR-RLK ) BAK1 is involved in steroid hormone responses, innate immunity, and cell death control. Here, we describe the differential regulation of three different receptor-like-kinases ( RKs ) by bak1-5. Innate immune signaling is severely compromised in planta, but the ligand-induced heteromerization of FLS2 and EFR is completely dispensable for the binding of the receptor kinase BRI1, revealing another pathway specific mechanistic difference. We also sh
Anticancer research spans a wide range of scales, from the microscopic/molecular up to the macroscopic level of clinical assessment of treatment efficacy. On an intermediate scale of preclinical testing in vitro and in vivo, cancer research maintains the need to evaluate the antiproliferative activity of old and new treatment options in cancer cell populations, even within populations of genetically identical cells. This calls for a probabilistic view of the single cell response representing a change of per
Coenzyme Q ( CoQ ) is an essential electron carrier in the mitochondrial respiratory chain whose deficiency has been implicated in a wide variety of human mitochondrial disease manifestations. We now show that a presumed autoimmune kidney disease in mice with the missense Pdss2kd/Kd genotype can be attributed to a mitochondrial coenzyme biosynthetic defect. Levels of coQ9 and coq10 in kidney homogenates were significantly lower than those in B6 control mice. Disease manifestations originate specifically in 
All forms of life are confronted with environmental and genetic perturbations, making phenotypic robustness an important characteristic. However, the underlying mechanism is not well understood. Here we report that developmental cell lineages of two protostomes and one deuterostome are structured such that the resulting cellular compositions of the organisms are only modestly affected by cell deaths. Several features of these cell lines, including their shallowness, topology, early ontogenic appearances of 
Phenomics is the acquisition of high-dimensional phenotypic data on an organism-wide scale. It is both analogous and complementary to genomics and has a similar capacity to facilitate advances in biology. However, it is now recognised that in many ways, the challenges of phenomics dwarf those faced at the advent of modern genetics. In this study, we present Embryo, an open-source platform for the quantification and integration of interindividual and intraindividual temporal change in morphological, physiolo and phenological changes in the shape and size of the human body. We have developed a platform that can be used to quantitatively quantify and integrate the temporal and spatial change of morphologically and physical changes.
Malaria parasites ( Plasmodium spp. ) encounter markedly different ( nutritional ) environments during their complex life cycles in the mosquito and human hosts. Adaptation to these different host niches is associated with a dramatic rewiring of metabolism, from a highly glycolytic metabolism in asexual blood stages to increased dependence on tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) metabolism. Here we have used metabolomic and reverse genetic approaches to investigate the metabolic changes that occur in key insect stage of malaria parasites.
Many biological signaling pathways exhibit the ability to differentiate between pulsatile and sustained signals in the regulation of downstream gene expression. While the networks underlying this signal decoding are diverse, many are built around a common motif, the incoherent feedforward loop ( IFFL ) in which an input simultaneously activates an output and an inhibitor of the output. With appropriate parameters, this motif can exhibit temporal adaptation, where the system is desensitized to a sustained i
Scrub typhus is a serious febrile illness of broad geographical diversity, endemic in the majority of rural Asia and northern areas of Australia. Clinical symptoms resemble that of a number of other tropical diseases including malaria, dengue, leptospirosis, and other bacterial infections, but rapid, unambiguous diagnosis is often unavailable. One reason why research into the fundamental mechanisms of cellular infection by Orientia tsutsugamushi is less well characterised is because of the technical difficu
Schistosomiasis is one of the most prevalent parasitic diseases in the tropical and subtropical countries of Africa and the Middle East affecting approximately 107 million people. The disease is caused by the helminth parasite Schistomosoma haematobium and is controlled by treatment of infected people with the anti-helminths drug praziquantel ( PZQ ). Children aged up to 5 years are currently excluded from the control programmes largely due to the lack of safety data in this age group. This study investigat
Oncogenic mutations in the small GTPase Ras contribute to ~30% of human cancers. However, Ras mutations alone are insufficient for tumorigenesis, therefore it is paramount to identify cooperating cancer-relevant signaling pathways. We devised an in vivo near genome-wide, functional screen in Drosophila and discovered multiple novel, evolutionarily-conserved pathways controlling Ras-driven epithelial growth and metastasis. Human gene orthologs of the fly hits were significantly downregulated in thousands of 
Meiotic drivers are selfish alleles that subvert gametogenesis to increase their transmission into progeny. Drivers impose a fitness cost, putting pressure on the genome to evolve suppressors. Here, we investigate the wtf gene family from Schizosaccharomyces pombe, previously shown to contain meiotic driver in wild isolates. We discovered that this gene kills spores that do not inherit it by generating both a diffusible poison and a spore-specific antidote. Wtf13 is suppressed by another gene that arose spo
Many genetic variants that are significantly correlated to gene expression changes across human individuals have been identified, but the ability of these variants to predict expression of unseen individuals has rarely been evaluated. Here, we devise an algorithm that, given training expression and genotype data for a set of individuals, predicts the expression level of genes of unknown unseen test individuals given only their genotypes in the local genomic vicinity of the predicted gene. Notably, the resul
Malarial infections are often genetically diverse, leading to competitive interactions between parasites. A quantitative understanding of the competition between strains is essential to understand a wide range of issues, including the evolution of virulence and drug resistance. In this study, we use dynamical-model-based Bayesian inference to investigate the cause of competitive suppression of an avirulent clone of Plasmodium chabaudi ( AS ) in immuno-deficient and competent mice. We found that just one par
DNA replication errors are a major driver of evolution—from single nucleotide polymorphisms to large-scale copy number variations ( CNVs ). Here we test a specific replication-based model to explain the generation of interstitial, inverted triplications in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. While no genetic information is lost, the novel inversion junctions and increased copy size of the included sequences create the potential for adaptive phenotypes. The model—Origin-Dependent Inverted-Repeat Amplificatio
Translation can initiate at alternate, non-canonical start codons in response to stressful stimuli in mammalian cells. Recent studies suggest that viral infection and anti-viral responses alter sites of translation initiation, and in some cases, lead to production of novel immune epitopes. Here we use ribosome profiling, the high-throughput sequencing of mRNA fragments, to experimentally delineate the genome-wide landscape of translational initiation in influenza virus lineages that have adapted to mammalia. We show that influenza viruses have evolved to adapt to the mammalian environment by altering the site of the first codon of their mRNA.
Enteropathogenic E. coli ( EHEC ) causes a severe bloody diarrhea following transmission to humans through consumption of fruit juice, raw/undercooked meat, and vegetables contaminated with manure, including contaminated beef and vegetable products, water, or through contact with animals. In many cases, the mechanisms by which these effectors bind to host proteins and disrupt the normal function of intestinal epithelial cells have not been completely characterized. Here, we show that the enterohemorrhagic E. coli is the causative agent of a fatal infection with the bacterium Enterococcus aureus coli, which is a major cause of bloody diarrhoea in humans.
Transcription factor ( TF ) binding to its DNA target site is a fundamental regulatory interaction. The most common model used to represent TF binding specificities is the position specific scoring matrix ( PSSM ), which assumes independence between binding positions. However, in many cases, this simplifying assumption does not hold. Here, we present a novel probabilistic method for modeling TF–DNA interactions, based on log-linear models. We develop the mathematical formulation of our model and devise an a
The sympathetic nervous system stimulates the fight-or-flight response of innervated target tissues by localized release of catecholamine neurotransmitters from the nerve terminals. Knockout mice for this gene show physiological and behavioural alterations. There is evidence of positive selection on the regulation of the gene during chicken domestication. Here, we find that the neuronal expression of ADRA2C is lower in human and chimpanzee than in other primates. We identified a cis-regulatory region whose gene is located in the brain, which is known to be involved in fight or flight responses.
The C4 photosynthetic pathway represents one of the most remarkable examples of convergent evolution. The recurrent evolution of this highly complex trait involving alterations to leaf anatomy, cell biology and biochemistry allows an increase in productivity by ∼50% in tropical and subtropical areas. We developed a new informatics framework to enable deep evolutionary comparison of gene expression in species lacking reference genomes. Using this framework, we define a cohort of 3, 335 genes that represent c
We have longitudinally explored the potential role of the respira
Machupo virus ( MACV ) from the clade B of New World arenaviruses is the etiological agent of Bolivian hemorrhagic fever ( BHF ). Junin virus, a close relative of JUNV, is also an etiologic agent. In this study, we report that a recombinant, chimeric MacV ( rMACV/Cd#1-GPC ) expressing the ectodomain of GPC was completely attenuated in a murine model and protects animals from lethal challenge with the macromolecular pathogen. A single F438I substitution in the transmembrane domain ( TMD ), which is equivalen
Accurate segregation of eukaryotic chromosomes into daughter cells requires the presence of a centromere. Centromeres are, in most species, a region on each chromosome that directs the assembly of the kinetochore during mitosis and meiosis. To better define CENH3 functional constraints, we complemented a null allele in Arabidopsis with a variety of mutant alleles, each inducing a single amino acid change in the histone fold domain. Many of these transgenic missense lines displayed wild-type growth and ferti
The differentiation of embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) in vitro is a powerful system for identifying developmental cues required for proper cell fate commitment. However, the mechanisms that regulate ESC maintenance upstream and downstream of these core regulatory components are poorly understood, largely because of the difficulty of obtaining pure populations of fully differentiated cells and the lack of detailed transcript expression profiles that allow the analysis of transcription and alternative splicing.
Trehalose is an abundant disaccharide found in many different groups of organisms with the notable exemption of mammals. It is required for the viability and/or virulence of several fungal, helminthic and bacterial pathogens, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis, but not mammals, and is thus considered an attractive target for development of antimicrobial drugs. The most common biosynthetic route involves trehalosyltransferase ( T6P ) synthase OtsA, which catalyzes the transfer of nucleoside diphosphate-act, a molecule involved in the transport of the deoxyribonucleic acid ( ATP ), to the cytoplasmic endocytosis site.
Chagas' disease, caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, is a life-threatening illness affecting 11–18 million people from southern USA to southern Argentina. The need for new drugs is urgent with current treatments having poor efficacy and safety profiles, particularly in the late stage of the disease when the parasite has infected critical organs. Recent studies have revealed an essential T-cruzi proline racemase enzyme ( TcPR ) as an attractive candidate for improved chemotherapeutic drugs. T cPR is known to be an important enzyme for the development of anti-parasitic drugs and has recently been identified as a potential new drug candidate.
In the post-genome era, a major challenge is deciphering the function of thousands of newly identified genes. One of the main approaches for studying gene function involves inactivation of genes in cells or animals using random ( chemical or insertional ) mutagenesis or gene targeting. A common problem with these methods stems from the fact that the gene of interest is usually mutated throughout the animal's life. As a result, 1 ) in many cases the mutation leads to embryonic or neonatal lethality, precludi
Congenital infection of Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease, allows transmission of this parasite from one generation to another, in endemic and non-endemic regions. Despite the problematic that this entails, little is known about the placenta environment genetic response produced against infection. We performed functional genomics by microarray analysis in C57Bl/6J mice comparing Placentas from uninfected animals and from animals infected with two different strains: K98 and VD ( TcI  ), and found that the environment of the parasite was significantly different from that of infected animals.
The arthritogenic alphaviruses Sindbis virus ( SINV ) cause disease mainly in tropical and sub-tropical countries, and in northern Europe it is suggested to cause regularly reoccurring outbreaks. Here a seven-year cycle is referred to in scientific papers, although the hypothesis is based solely on reported human cases. In the search for a more objective outbreak signal, we evaluated mosquito abundance and prevalence in vector mosquitoes from an endemic area in central Sweden. Vector mosquitoes collected in
Neuronal circuits implement a variety of coding strategies that differ in their reliance on precise timing and correlations between action potentials ( “spikes” ). Among these strategies, oscillations, synchronization and precise spike timing are central in influential models of cortical learning and neural development. The locust olfactory system, in which dense, transiently synchronized spike trains across ensembles of antenna lobe ( AL ) neurons are transformed into a sparse representation in the mushroo
The mapping of the human genome resulted in new technologies for studying complex diseases such as coronary artery disease ( CAD ) from a functional genomic perspective. By revealing comprehensive repertoires of molecular activities, these technologies combined with systems biology analyses will pave the way for a more detailed understanding of common disorders—a prerequisite to advance molecular diagnostics for early identification of disease and to identify central disease pathways for therapies tailored to patients.
Cyanobacteria have been shown to possess a self-sustained circadian clock. However, it is still not known which phospho-state of KaiC promotes kaiBC transcription. We systematically analyzed various combinations of positive and negative transcriptional feedback regulation by introducing a combined TTFL/PTO model consisting of our previous post-translational oscillator ( PTO ). Our model simulations suggest that the peak expression ratio is the main factor for how the different two-loop feedback models respo
Human Immunodeficiency type 2 virus ( HIV-2 ) is a Lentivirus responsible for a less pathogenic infection than HIV type 1 virus, characterized by slow clinical progression, prolonged maintenance of CD4 lymphocytes counts, and a high proportion of untreated individuals with undetectable plasma viral load ( pVL ). However, the pathophysiological mechanisms explaining these lower viral loads compared to HIV/SIV infection remain little explored. Antiretroviral-naive individuals from the ANRS-CO5 ( 12 non-progre
Visuospatial attention produces myriad effects on the activity and selectivity of cortical neurons. Spiking neuron models capable of reproducing a wide variety of these effects remain elusive. We present a model called the Attentional Routing Circuit ( ARC ) that provides a mechanistic description of selective attentional processing in cortex. The model is implemented in spiking neurons and specifies how top-down feedback signals can be used to perform selective routing of attended visual stimuli. Specifica
Atrial fibrillation ( AF ) is a morbid and heritable arrhythmia. Over 35 genes have been reported to underlie AF, most of which were described in small candidate gene association studies. Replication remains lacking for most, and therefore the contribution of coding variation to AF susceptibility remains poorly understood. We examined whole exome sequencing data in a large community-based sample of 1, 734 individuals with and 9, 423 without AF from the Framingham Heart Study, Cardiovascular Health Study and the American Heart Association Study. Our results show that AF is associated with a significant variation in the coding of the Atrial Fibrillator ( AFA ) gene, which has been shown to be important for the risk of AF.
Alveolar echinococcosis ( AE ) caused by Echinococcus multilocularis infections is a dangerous old disease in the Northern Hemisphere. The aim of the paper was to collect and analyze the clinical and epidemiological data on human AE in Poland. Altogether 121 human cases of AE were detected. Among these 83 ( 68, 6% ) cases were classified as confirmed, 16 as probable and 22 as possible. During the two decades a continuous increase in detection rate was noticed. In all cases the liver was the primary location, where the kidneys were the main location.
Zinc fluxes are involved in regulating a wide variety of cellular functions, including host immune activation, oocyte maturation and fertilization, glucose-induced insulin secretion, and pathogenicity. The ability of commensal organisms to adapt to the host environment depends upon the ability to withstand large fluctuations in local zinc concentration. To understand how microorganisms coordinate a dynamic response to changes in zinc availability at the molecular level, we evaluated the structure of a zinc-zinc-molecule complex. We found that a single zinc flux is required for the production of the most abundant form of zinc in the environment. In addition to understanding how a microorganism responds to a large amount of local variation in its local concentration, our study provides insight into the dynamics of this complex response.
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is a mosquito-borne zoonotic disease that causes high morbidity and mortality in ruminants. In 2008–2009, a major outbreak affected the whole Madagascar island, including the Anjozorobe district located in Madagascar highlands. An entomological survey showed that Aedes mosquitoes were too rare to explain the recurrent virus circulation in this area, and an overall low abundance of mosquitoes due to unfavorable climatic conditions during winter. No serological nor virological sign o
We used a combination of nuclear microsatellite loci ( on 911 individuals ) and mitochondrial COI sequences to gain a better understanding of the historical and contemporary movements of this mosquito within the Indo-Pacific region and to characterize its population structure. Approximate Bayesian computation ( ABC ) was employed to 
Schistosomiasis is a serious neglected tropical disease and a major public health problem especially in Sub-Saharan Africa. The United Republic of Tanzania has the second highest number of cases in the region ( 19 million ) only surpassed by Nigeria’s 29 million. In Tanzania, the intestinal form caused by S. mansoni is especially abundant in school-age children, adolescents and in fishing communities. Chronic infection triggers host immune reactions which leads to granuloma formation in intestines, liver an
Leptospirosis is a zoonosis found worldwide that is caused by a spirochete of the genus Leptopira. The main reservoirs are wild rodents, including the brown rat ( Rattus norvegicus ). Experimental studies of its renal colonization in rats have previously used an intraperitoneal inoculation route. However, knowledge of rat-rat transmission requires the use of a natural route of infection, such as a mucosal or subcutaneous route in rat colonies. We investigated for the first time the effects of two natural di
Sepsis is a progressive disease manifesting excessive inflammatory responses, severe tissue injury, organ dysfunction, and, ultimately, mortality. Since currently, there are limited therapeutic options for this disease, further understanding the molecular pathogenesis of sepsis may help develop effective treatments. Here we identify a novel role for Annexin A2 ( AnxA2 ), a multi-compartmental protein, in inhibiting pro-inflammatory response by regulating reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and IL-17 signaling.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) infection of monocytes/macrophages plays a key role in viral pathogenesis and progression to AIDS. Intrinsic factors such as Toll-like receptors ( TLRs ) and bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) are known to decrease HIV infection in monocyte-derived macrophage ( MDMs ), but the mechanism ( s ) of these effects are incompletely understood. We found that poly ( I∶C ) -stimulation abrogated infection by CCR5-using, mRNAs-tropic HIV, and by vesicular stomatitis vir. The mechanism of this effect is not well understood and we have not been able to explain the mechanisms of the effects of poly-stimulating on HIV infections.
Plants use daily light/dark cycles as timing cues to control many essential physiological processes. In plants, growth rates of the embryonic stem ( hypocotyl ) are maximal at different times of day, depending on the external photoperiod and the internal circadian clock. However, the interactions between light signaling, circadian clocks, and growth-promoting hormone pathways in growth control remain poorly understood. To determine the transcriptional component associated with the rhythmic control of growth
Rhodnius prolixus is an efficient vector of Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease, and is primarily controlled by domiciliary insecticide applications. Oral delivery of dsRNA has been proposed as a method to control insect pests such as termites, fruit flies, flour beetles, pea aphids, tobacco hornworms and honeybees, among others. The sustainability of this method in the Central American and Andean regions is limited by the potential re-infestation by species from sylvatic habitats.
Fever in pregnancy is dangerous for both mother and foetus. In the 1980's malaria was the leading cause of death in pregnant women in refugee camps on the Thai-Burmese border. Artemisinin combination therapy has significantly reduced the incidence of malaria in the population. The remaining causes of febrile illness are not well documented. Pregnant women attending antenatal care, where weekly screening for malaria is routine, were invited to have a comprehensive clinical and laboratory screen if they had f
Meiotic recombination is crucial in both driving the evolution of genomes and ensuring faithful segregation of pairs of homologous chromosomes during gametogenesis. In most mammals, there are important sex-differences in the distribution of crossovers along the genome. For example, more than 20% of oocytes exhibit an abnormal number of chromosomes relative to males, and yet very few aneuploid embryos are viable. Therefore, age-related effects are of major importance, especially in relation to the mechanisms
The ability of innate immune cells to possess memory like-responses upon re-exposure to an antigen has been documented in plants, insects, and more recently, mammals. Memory-like responses by innate cells have been termed innate memory or “trained” immunity and provide proof-of-concept that protection can be achieved in immunocompromised patients. However, the effector cell population and mechanism responsible for protection is unknown. In the current studies, we utilized an experimental immunization strate to study the effects of the innate immunity cells on the protection of patients with immunosuppressed immune systems.
Polycomb repressive complexes ( PRCs ) play crucial roles in transcriptional repression and developmental regulation in both plants and animals. In plants, depletion of different members of PcGs causes both overlapping and unique phenotypic defects. However, the underlying molecular mechanism determining the target specificity and functional diversity is not sufficiently characterized. Here, we quantitatively compared changes of tri-methylation at H3K27 in Arabidopsis mutants deprived of various key PRC com
The active sites of multisubunit RNA polymerases have a “trigger loop” ( TL ) that multitasks in substrate selection, catalysis, and translocation to the next template position. To dissect the Saccharomyces cerevisiae TL at individual-residue resolution, we quantitatively phenotyped nearly all TL single variants en masse. Three mutant classes, revealed by phenotypes linked to transcription defects or various stresses, have distinct distributions among TL residues. We find that mutations disrupting an intra-translational transmembrane assembly of the active site of a single-stranded RNA-polymerase, the trigger loop, are associated with a distinct distribution of TL-specific mutations.
The majority of rabies virus ( RV ) infections are caused by bites or scratches from rabid carnivores or bats. Usually, RV utilizes the retrograde transport within the neuronal network to spread from the infection site to the central nervous system ( CNS ) where it replicates in neuronal somata and infects other neurons via trans-synaptic spread. However, it is unknown whether hematogenous spread has any relevance in RV pathogenesis. In order to determine whether certain RV variants might have the capacity 
Influenza A viruses of the H1N1 subtype of influenza A virus have caused substantial morbidity and mortality in humans, first documented in 1918 and continuing to the present day. Despite this disease burden, the evolutionary history of this virus is not well understood, particularly whether there is a virological basis for several notable epidemics of unusual severity in the 1940s and 1950s. Using a data set of 71 representative complete genome sequences sampled between 1918–2006, we show that segmental re
Nicotine exerts its reinforcing action by stimulating nicotinic acetylcholine receptors ( nAChRs ) and boosting dopamine ( DA ) output from the ventral tegmental area ( VTA ). Recent data have led to a debate about the principal pathway of nicotine action: direct stimulation of the DA and GABAergic cells, or disinhibition mediated through desensitization on the GABA interneurons. We use a computational model to shed light on this issue. Our model illustrates that the α4β2 receptor-mediated currents either o
Anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) due to Leishmania ( L. ) tropica infection is a chronic, frequently disfiguring skin disease with limited therapeutic options. In endemic countries healing of ulcerative lesions is often delayed by bacterial and/or fungal infections. Here, we studied a novel therapeutic concept to prevent superinfections, accelerate wound closure, and improve the cosmetic outcome of ACL. From 2004 to 2008 we performed a two-armed, randomized, double-blinded, phase IIa trial in Ka
The small GTPase RAS is among the most prevalent oncogenes. The evolutionarily conserved RAF-MEK-MAPK module is one of the main conduits through which this pathway transmits proliferative signals in normal and cancer cells. Genetic and biochemical studies conducted in metazoan models such as Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans have uncovered a small set of factors that control RAF activation, thus suggesting a central regulatory role for this event. However, whether additional factors are required at this stage remains to be determined.
Cryptococcosis is among the most prevalent life-threatening mycoses, especially in hosts with an impaired immune system such as HIV positive patients. C. neoformans has been known to be the major cause of the infection in immunocompromised hosts, while the immunosuppressed hosts were virtually always affected by this species. The current study aimed to expend the current epidemiological knowledge by including a further 498 clinical, environmental and veterinary isolates of this outbreak strain.Cryptococcosi
Differences in regulatory networks underlie much of the phenotypic variation observed across organisms. Mutations in transcription factors ( TFs ), on the other hand, can affect the expression of multiple genes and are thought therefore to be more likely to have detrimental consequences. However, examples of regulatory network divergence stemming from TF variation have also been observed. Here, we analyze the evolution of Cys2-His2 zinc finger ( C2H2ZF ) 1-to-1 orthologs across 12 Drosophila species spannin. We show that the 2-helichen finger is the most common orthologue in the genus Spanninae.
Serotype-specific PCR assays targeting Salmonella enterica serotypes Typhi and Paratyphi A are required to accelerate formal diagnosis and to overcome the lack of typing sera and, in some situations, the need for culture. In this work, we developed a new family of repeated DNA sequences, CRISPR ( clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats ), as a target for the detection and differentiation of these two major bacterial populations. We demonstrated that the spacer content of a strain was stron, and we demonstrated by the presence of an intact strain of the same strain that had been stroned.
The protective immune response to intracellular parasites involves in most cases the differentiation of IFNγ-secreting CD4+ T helper ( Th ) 1 cells. Notch receptors regulate cell differentiation during development, but their implication in the polarization of peripheral cells is not well understood. In this study, we investigated the role of notch in Th1 cell development following infection with the protozoan parasite Leishmania major. N1N2ΔCD4Cre mice, on the C57BL/6 L. major-resistant genetic background, were infected with a parasite that is resistant to the antigens of the human immune system. We found that the notch receptor is involved in cell polarization during the development of a specific type of cell called the Th 1 cell.
Parasitic worm infections are the predominant route of HIV transmission in sub-Saharan Africa. However, it is not possible to directly test this hypothesis in humans. We tested the effect of schistosome infection on host susceptibility to immunodeficiency virus infection using rhesus macaques exposed intrarectally to low doses of the recently described R5-tropic clade C simian HIV-1, SHIV-1157ipd3N4. Systemic infection occurred in parasitized monkeys at lower doses than in normal hosts. Coinfected animals a
Acetylcholine ( ACh ) is a neurotransmitter that modulates neural excitability and one of the neurochemical substrates of sleep. Amongst the cellular effects induced by cholinergic modulation are a reduction in spike-frequency adaptation ( SFA ) and a shift in the phase response curve ( PRC ). We demonstrate in a biophysical model how changes in neural activity and network structure interact to form three distinct functional regimes: localized asynchronous, traveling asynchronous and traveling synchronous.
Esophageal adenocarcinoma ( EAC ) develops in an inflammatory microenvironment with reduced microbial diversity, but mechanisms for these influences remain poorly characterized. We hypothesized that somatic mutations may collectively target the Toll-like receptor ( TLR ) pathway, which is involved in downstream signaling and interaction with the adaptor molecule MyD88, and may play a role in disease pathogenesis in a subset of patients. Using whole genome sequencing data from 171 patients with clinical outcute disease, we found that a number of mutations were collectively targeted by the receptor-transmitor ( TTR ), a pathway that regulates the expression of the innate immune system. Our results suggest that this pathway may be important for the development of disease.
The sense of taste is of critical importance to animal survival. Although studies have provided detailed information regarding taste receptor calcium signaling molecules ( TRCSMs, required for sweet/bitter/umami taste signal transduction ), the ontogeny of the taste cells is still largely unknown. We used a novel approach to investigate the molecular regulation of cell differentiation in mice by combining in silico and in vivo analyses. Our computational analysis revealed that the expression of nuclear HES1, which is a major target for the cell to survive in the environment, is regulated by a molecular mechanism that is not well understood.
Rice is an important monocotyledonous crop worldwide; it differs from Arabidopsis in many aspects. Ethylene and auxin act synergistically to regulate root growth and development. However, their interaction in rice is still unclear. In this study, we report that the transcriptional activation of OsEIL1 on the expression of YUC8/REIN7 and indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) -dependent Auxin biosynthesis is required for ethylene-inhibited root elongation. By screening phenotypes of seedling primary root from mutagen, our study provides a mechanistic insight into the interaction between the two molecules that regulate the growth of rice and the development of secondary root.
Non-tuberculous mycobacteria causing pulmonary and extrapulmonary diseases are reportedly increasing globally and the current epidemiologic situation in Saudi Arabia remains unclear. To study such trend, we carried out a nationwide systematic epidemiological study focusing on NTM diseases for the first time in the country. A total of 527 isolates were enrolled with a higher proportion of Saudi citizens ( 76. 5% ), elderly ( >60 years ) patients, 34. 2% and male gender ( 65. 3% respectively ). Overall, 75. 1% of patients were >70 years ( <60-years ) and >65-year-old men were more than 65 years of age respectively. The overall prevalence of the disease was 75%.
During starvation for glucose or any other macronutrient, yeast cells exit from the mitotic cell cycle and acquire a set of characteristics that are specific to quiescent cells to ensure longevity. However, little is known about the molecular determinants that orchestrate entry and lifespan extension in yeast. Using starvation-specific gene reporters, we screened a subset of the yeast deletion library representing the genes encoding ‘signaling’ proteins. Apart from Rim15, Mck1 and Yak1 kinases, the SNF1/AMPK complex, and the RIM15 kinase and YAK1 protein complexes, all of which are known to play a key role in the development of longevity and entry into the host, it is not known what is the mechanism by which these genes are selected to be selected for longevity in this organism.
Rapid antigenic evolution enables the persistence of seasonal influenza A and B viruses in human populations despite widespread herd immunity. Understanding viral mechanisms that enable viral evolution is critical for designing durable vaccines and therapeutics. Here, we use the primerID method of error-correcting viral population sequencing to reveal an unexpected role for hemagglutinin ( HA ) glycosylation in compensating for fitness defects resulting from escape from anti-HA neutralizing antibodies. In this study we show that the HAGGGLUTININI glycolytic system is able to compensate for a loss of fitness in the form of a fitness defect that resulted from escaping from antibodies that neutralize antibodies against the virus.
Prolongation of the ventricular action potential ( APD ), the action of class III antiarrhythmic drugs, is a problematic property of these drugs. Reverse rate dependent ( reverse rate dependence ) is the phenomenon that drugs will prolong the AP to a greater extent at slow heart rates than at fast heart rate. This is doubly problematic, as it not only weakens the ability of drugs to suppress re-entry of excitation that underlies many arrhythmias, but also increases the risk of sudden cardiac death in both congenital a
Phenome-Wide Association Studies ( PheWAS ) investigate whether genetic polymorphisms associated with a phenotype are also related with other diagnoses. In this study, we have developed new methods to perform a ICD-10 analysis based on the diagnosis codes and biological test results, and to use a quantitative trait as the selection criterion. We applied these methods in patients having a TPMT activity assessment from the clinical data warehouse of a French academic hospital between January 2000 and July 201. This study is the first to show that a specific type of polymorphism is related to a disease diagnosis.
Stem cells, from which all tissues can be generated, offer the potential to reconstitute tissues damaged by injury and disease. However, realising this potential will demand a detailed knowledge of the genetic and internal environmental cues that specify a cell's type, location, and interaction with its neighbours. In patients, lineage-specific stem cells have been reported to show efficacy in the regeneration of craniofacial bones and of damaged cornea. Stem cell transplantation was pioneered in 1950s usin
Soil-transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections ( i. e., Ascaris lumbricoides, hookworm, and Trichuris trichiura ) affect more than a billion people, particularly the rural poor of the developing world. Preventive chemotherapy is the mainstay of control. This strategy, however, does not prevent reinfection. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess patterns and dynamics of infection after drug treatment. Our protocol is available on PROSPERO, registration number: CRD42011001678. From 154 stu
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) is associated with metabolic syndromes spanning a wide spectrum of diseases. To identify the deregulation that occurs in metabolic processes at the molecular level that give rise to these various NA FLD phenotypes, algorithms such as pathway enrichment analysis ( PEA ) can be used to identify deregulated minimal networks ( MiNs ), which are reactions pertaining to various metabolic subsystems that can synthesize a target metabolite. Unfortunately, the annotation of the annotated minimal network is not well-suited to this task. In this paper, we provide a detailed description of a deregulatory network that is involved in the metabolic process that synthesizes a specific metabolic component.
The olfactory system identifies and discriminates odors for solving vital tasks like navigating the environment, identifying food, and engaging in social interactions. These tasks are complicated by the enormous variety of odor types, which vary in composition and in the concentrations of their individual molecules. Primacy coding, where the odor identity is encoded by receptor types that respond earliest, might provide a compact and informative representation that can be interpreted efficiently by brain.
The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein ( Env ) spike, the sole target of broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( bnMAbs ), is a heterotrimer of composition ( gp120 ) 3 that includes about 25 N-linked glycans on the C-terminal half of the ectodomain. The gp41 protein typically includes four conserved G-protein complexes that comprise almost 50% of its mass. In this study, we were interested in determining the extent of non-sigmoidal slopes and plateaus at <100% for HIV antibodies more generally. Using both a 2
Cancer cells share several metabolic traits, including aerobic production of lactate from glucose ( Warburg effect ), extensive glutamine utilization and impaired mitochondrial electron flow. It is still unclear how these metabolic rearrangements, which may involve different molecular events in different cells, contribute to a selective advantage for cancer cell proliferation. In order to integrate sets of experimental data and to formulate new testable hypotheses, complex biological systems–such as human m
Prions are the causative agents of a range of rare but invariably fatal neurodegenerative diseases in humans and other mammals. In disease, the cellular prion protein ( PrPC ) converts to a disease-associated conformer with different physicochemical properties. Whereas significant progress has been made in the past few years in defining the minimal requirements for the conformational conversion of this protein in vitro, its molecular environment remains enigmatic. To facilitate recognition of relevant inter
Influenza A virus ( IAV ) is the causative agent of asthma and allergic diseases such as asthma. IL-5 is one of the major type 2 cytokines that is essential for eosinophil survival ( in humans ) as well as B1-B cell development in mice. However, the production of this cytokine during respiratory virus infection has been linked to asthma exacerbation; however, it has not been shown to be tissue protective. Using a mouse model of influenza infection, we found a robust transient release of interleukin ( IL ) - - IL -5, which is important for the survival and development of mice, and is required for survival of human and human cells. We also found that this IL release is protective against asthma, but it is not associated with tissue damage.
Invasive non-typhoidal Salmonella ( iNTS ) infections are now a well-described cause of morbidity and mortality in children and HIV-infected adults in sub-Saharan Africa. However, the epidemiology and clinical manifestations are not well documented. In this study, we retrospectively identified >100 cases of iNsTS infections in an infectious disease hospital in Southern Vietnam between 2008 and 2013. Clinical records were accessed to evaluate the clinical symptoms, disease outcome, patient demographics and t
Phages play critical roles in the survival and pathogenicity of their hosts, via lysogenic conversion factors, and in nutrient redistribution via cell lysis. Analyses of phage- and viral-encoded genes in environmental samples provide insights into the physiological impact of viruses on microbial communities and human health. Phage ORFs are extremely diverse of which over 70% of them are dissimilar to any genes with annotated functions in GenBank. Better identification of viral structural proteins would also improve our understanding of the mechanisms by which viruses are able to cause disease and contribute to the development of new therapeutics and vaccines.
Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) is one of the few oncogenic human viruses known to date. Its large dsDNA genome encodes more than 85 proteins and includes both unique viral proteins as well as proteins conserved amongst herpesviruses. In this study, we characterized all three isoforms of ORF20 and show that they localize to the nuclei and nucleoli of transiently transfected or transduced cells. OASL is an interferon-stimulated gene pr
Convulsions with fever in children are a common neurologic emergency in the tropics, and determining the contribution of endemic viral infections can be challenging. In particular, there is a dearth of data on the prevalence and clinical differentiation of Lassa virus disease ( LVD ) in febrile children in endemic areas of Nigeria, which has multiple lineages of the virus. The aim of this study was to determine the presence of a positive diagnostic test and to compare the clinical manifestations of fever-associated fever and fever. We found that there are no available diagnostic tests that can accurately diagnose and differentiate the disease from other viruses.
Water deficit is a major constraint to crop productivity worldwide. As water resources are increasingly challenged by climate change and the demands of a growing human population, improvement of water use efficiency and development of drought-resistant crops will be critical innovations for agriculture. Intensive efforts have been made toward discovering the hormones and genetic networks that control drought adaptation in plants, with the goal of developing chemical or genetic tools to manipulate drought re
Schistosomiasis is a major public health problem in many developing countries in the tropics and sub-tropics where it affects 200 million people, and is directly or indirectly responsible for many thousand deaths annually. The currently available evidence thus emphasises the relevance of developing a transmission blocking veterinary vaccine for use in bovines to reduce S. japonicum infection ( or reinfection ) and to decrease the force of transmission by interrupting female worm egg production.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a leading cause of disability in South Pacific regions, where >96% of the 1. 7 million population are at risk of LF infection. As part of current global campaign, mass drug administration ( MDA ) has effectively reduced LF transmission, but mosquito vector biology can complicate the strategy. Here, we demonstrate that Aedes polynesiensis, the primary vector for LF, is genetically incompatible with naturally infected mosquitoes, resulting in female sterility. The results of this study have implications for the development of new strategies to reduce LF disease transmission.
Human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is a severely neglected vector-borne disease that is always fatal if untreated. In Tanzania it is highly focalised and of major socio-economic and public health importance in affected communities. Accurate estimates of incidence and effective control of this disease depend on active surveillance which is expensive and requires a high level of organization. The direct medical and other indirect costs incurred by individual patients and by the health services were calcula
The cytoplasmic peptide:N-glycanase ( Ngly1 in mammals ) is an enzyme that is highly conserved among eukaryotes. In this study, we analyzed the phenotypes of mice that are embryonic lethal in C57BL/6 background. Surprisingly, the additional deletion of the gene encoding endo-β-Nacetylglu
One of the fundamental questions in biology is how embryos develop reproducibly, and it has many aspects. At a broad level, one can ask what the degree to which parameters controlling developmental patterning can vary before major disruptions occur. In recent years, a number of studies have made quantitative comparisons of developmental patterns between embryos in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, aided by its very well characterized molecular biology. For instance, there has been a recent focus on sp
Neanderthals, along with Denisovans, were a sister group to modern humans. After hybridization, on average, selection appears to have removed Neanderthal alleles from the human population. Quantifying the strength and causes of this selection, and, more broadly, how populations remain distinct after secondary contact, is key to understanding our relationship to Neanderths. Here, we develop a novel method for estimating the genome-wide average strength of selection and the density of selected sites. We find that selection is more robust in the presence of a Neanderthal allelele than it is at the onset of human contact.
HIV-1 can establish rare, latent infections in cells, and the resulting viral reservoirs represent the most significant barrier to elimination of virus from a patient since they persist for decades and can reactivate at any time. After HIV enters a cell, it integrates its genetic material into the host genome and utilizes host cell transcriptional machinery to regulate its gene expression. In a significant fraction of cells harboring an integrated copy of the model provirus ( LTR-GFP-IRES-Tat ), this bimoda is the first to show that HIV is able to establish a latent infection in a human cell.
Accurate genome-wide identification of orthologs is a central problem in comparative genomics, a fact reflected by the numerous orthology identification projects developed in recent years. However, only a few reports have compared their accuracy, and indeed, several recent efforts have not yet been systematically evaluated. In this study, we collected and mapped the results of nine leading orthological projects and methods ( COG, KOG, Inparanoid, OrthoMCL, Ensembl Compara, Homologene, RoundUp, EggNOG and OM ), to assess their accuracies and to compare the accuracy of their results.
Schistosomiasis is an acute and chronic disease caused by parasitic worms of the genus Schistomosoma. It is widespread in the tropics and sub-tropics, with more than 200 million people affected worldwide and an estimated 800 million at risk. The commercial incentives to develop new drugs are weak due to the emergence of resistance. This is particularly pertinent for parasitic infections of low and middle income countries, referred to collectively as neglected tropical diseases, where drug-resistance is emergent.
Transcription factors are essential players in signal transduction by regulating gene expression in response to changes in the cellular environment. An increasingly recognized phenomenon among human transcription factors is the formation of structure upon target binding. Here, we study the folding and binding of the pKID domain of CREB to the co-activator CBP. Our simulations predict a coupled folding-and binding mechanism, and the existence of partially bound intermediates. From transition-path and Φ-value
Schistosomiasis, also known as snail fever and bilharzia, is a disease caused by intestinal and urinary blood fluke parasites. The infection can cause anemia, stunted growth, impaired cognition, decreased physical fitness, intestinal fibrosis veins, hepatosplenomegaly, neurological complications and death. Subsequently, this disease has a socioeconomic impact on the populations affected.
Heterosexual transmission of HIV-1 is characterized by a genetic bottleneck that selects a single viral variant, the transmitted/founder ( TF ) during most transmission events. To assess viral characteristics influencing transmission, we sequenced 167 near full-length viral genomes and generated 40 infectious molecular clones ( IMC ) including TF variants and multiple non-transmitted ( NT ) variants from six linked heterosexual transmission pairs near the time of transmission. Consensus-like genomes were generated in the first year after transmission and confirmed that TF and NT variants were associated with the transmission event.
The filarial nematodes Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia malayi are the causative agents of lymphedema and elephantiasis, respectively. It is known, however, that individuals carrying adult worms ( with or without microfilaremia ) may have lymphangiectasia and aberrant lymph flow, a process that could be reversed by removing or killing the worms. In the absence of an adaptive immune system in murine models, lymphatic dilatation and dysfunction occur in filaria-infected individuals. Here, we examined the role of the innate immune response in the development of a new model for the pathogenesis of these diseases.
Since only a small fraction of environmental bacteria are amenable to laboratory culture, there is great interest in genomic sequencing directly from single cells. Sufficient DNA for sequencing can be obtained from one cell by the Multiple Displacement Amplification ( MDA ) method, thereby eliminating the need to develop culture methods. Here, we used a microfluidic device to isolate individual Escherichia coli genomes and amplify genomic DNA by a single cell in 60-nl reactions. We show by means of a direct PCR-based approach that we can amplify the genome of the single-cell organism.
Several viruses from the genus Orthohantavirus are known to cause lethal disease in humans. Sigmodontinae rodents are the main hosts responsible for the transmission of these viruses in the tropical forests, savannas, and wetlands of South America. These rodents can shed different viruses, such as the lethal and emerging Araraquara orthohandaviruses. Factors that drive variation in host populations may influence the proportion of hosts in rodent communities. Here, we tested this using 283 Atlantic Forest ro
B-cell lymphoma-2 ( BCL2 ) family proteins play central roles in mitochondria-mediated apoptotic to remove excess cells during development, as well as 
Canine rabies is an economically unique zoonosis, as most of its associated costs do not result from illness in the infected individual, but rather are the consequences of human deaths and efforts to prevent the disease in humans, livestock, and companion animals, both of which are beyond the scope of this manuscript. This study estimated the economic burden of canine rabie in Viet Nam over a ten year period ( 2005–2014 ). The largest portion of the impacts ( 92% ) were made up of PEP-related costs, which were not included in this study.
The Type II Secretion System ( T2SS ) is a molecular machine that drives the secretion of fully-folded protein substrates across the bacterial outer membrane. A key element in the machinery is the secretin: an integral membrane protein that assembles to form multimeric secretion channels. We have determined the crystal structure of the novel pilotin AspS from Vibrio cholerae, demonstrating convergent evolution wherein the Pilotin is functionally equivalent and yet structurally unrelated to the pilotins foun
Pathogenic Leptospira spp. shed in the urine of reservoir hosts into freshwater can be transmitted to a susceptible host through skin abrasions or mucous membranes. The infection process involves the ability of leptires to adhere to cell surface and extracellular matrix components, a crucial step for dissemination and colonization of host tissues. Therefore, the elucidation of novel mediators of the host-pathogen interaction is important for the discovery of virulence factors. In this study, we assess the f
A few broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies, isolated from HIV-1 infected individuals, recognize epitopes in the membrane proximal external region ( MPER ) of gp41 that are transiently exposed during viral entry. The best characterized, 4E10 and 2F5, are polyreactive, binding to the viral membrane and their epitope in this region. We present a model to calculate, as a function of the serum antibody concentration, the probability that during the pre-hairpin intermediate ( the transient period when the c
Mass treatment with ivermectin effectively controls onchocerciasis as a public health problem, but it was not known if it could also interrupt transmission and eliminate the parasite in endemic foci in Africa where vectors are highly efficient. A longitudinal study was undertaken in three hyperendemic areas in Mali and Senegal in order to assess residual levels of infection and transmission, and test whether treatment could be safely stopped. This article reports the results of the final evaluations up to 5
Human rhinovirus ( HRV ) is a small non-enveloped RNA virus of the picornavirus family, which includes many other significant pathogens such as poliovirus and foot-and-mouth disease virus. During cell entry, the small myristoylated capsid protein VP4 is released from the virus, interacts with the cell membrane and is implicated in the delivery of its viral RNA genome into the cytoplasm to initiate replication. In this study, we have produced recombinant C-terminal histidine-tagged human rhabdomyosomal protease ( R-H-R-1 ). We have shown that the human R -H protein is involved in its delivery to the cytoplasm for replication and that it is important for its virulence to be replicated.
Francisella tularensis ( Ft ) is a Gram-negative bacterium that causes the severe and often fatal disease tularemia in humans. Ft is designated a class A select agent by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Human clinical isolates of Ft produce lipid A of similar structure to Ft subspecies novicida ( Fn ), a pathogen of mice. In this study, we screened transposon-generated Fn mutants for enzymes required for the synthesis of the undecaprenyl-phospho-mannose or galactosamine donor lipid ( PmrF/Arn ). We screened the expression of Fn mutant proteins that are involved in the production of donor-lipid donor lipids.
Ribosomes are macromolecular machines responsible for the synthesis of proteins in all living cells. One such group, the ribosome-associated GTPases ( RA-GTPase ) act as molecular switches, cycling between inactive GDP-bound, and active, effector-binding states. Here we show that the Staphylococcus aureus RA G-protein Era is an essential protein required for 30S subunit maturation. We demonstrate that Era interacts with the 16S rRNA endonuclease YbeY and the DEAD-box RNA helicase CshA. This interaction is 
Anthrax lethal toxin ( LT ) induces vascular insufficiency in experimental animals through unknown mechanisms. Nitric oxide synthase ( nNOS ) is one of the most potent modulators of vascular function in vivo and its production by NO synthases is often highly increased during infections. In this study, we show that the increased sensitivity of mice to LT is independent of macrophage sensitivity to toxin, or cytokine responses. Histopathological, electron microscopy and heart biomarker analyses revealed that 
The human-parasitic threadworm Strongyloides stercoralis is a powerful model system for mechanistic studies of parasitic nematode biology. Here, we report the development of a method for introducing CRISPR-Cas9-mediated mutagenesis in the human parasite. We disrupted the C. elegans twitchin gene unc-22, and subsequently isolated mutant worms with uncoordinated ( unc ) phenotypes characterized by decreased motility and sporadic spontaneous twitching, when exposed to an acetylcholine receptor agonist. In the 
Translational control of gene expression is acknowledged to be a key regulatory control point governing the relationship between mRNA expression levels, and the levels of the encoded polypeptide. When cells are under stress conditions, such as amino acid starvation or aminoacyl-tRNA depletion due to a high level of recombinant protein expression, ribosome drop-off can substantially affect the efficiency of protein translatio
Soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) remain prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa, Asia and South America. In many settings such a strategy will need to be continued for very extended periods of time, or until social, economic and environmental conditions result in interruption of transmission. As a result, there is currently much discussion surrounding the possibility of accelerating transmission using alternative strategies of mass drug administration. However, the feasibility of achieving transmission interrupti
Cholera is a severe dehydrating diarrheal illness of humans caused by organisms Vibrio cholerae O1 or O139 serogroup organisms. The predominant serotype fluctuates between Ogawa and Inaba, with the prevalent serotypes fluctuating during the global pandemic, switching between O-specific polysaccharide ( OSP ). Protection against cholerozoic infections is serogen specific. In this study, we report the evaluation in mice of a conjugate vaccine made from the Osp:TThc and recombinant tetanus toxoid heavy chain f, which is the most effective and effective vaccine. We report that the antibody-based vaccine is effective against the infection.
Bacterial-fungal interactions have important physiologic and medical ramifications, but the mechanisms of these interactions are poorly understood. Using a neutropenic mouse model of microbial gastrointestinal colonization and dissemination, we show that the fungus Candida albicans inhibits the virulence of the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa by inhibiting pyochelin and pyoverdine gene expression, which plays a critical role in iron acquisition. Accordingly, deletion or deletion of both pyocyanin genes att
The high mutation rate of HIV coupled with the strong immune selection pressure exerted by CD8+ T lymphocytes leads to the frequent selection of ‘escape mutant’ ( EM ) virus that abrogates their recognition and killing by T cells. EM virus often has lower replicative capacity than the original wild-type virus, particularly when mutations occur in conserved regions such as Gag. The slow dynamics of escape and reversion in HIV-1 implies lower immune pressure and lower fitness costs of infection, but it i
Mutations beneficial for survival in one environment may impose a cost under other conditions. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood in most natural populations. Here we report that a set of yeast strains collected from Evolution Canyon ( EC ), Israel, exhibit an extremely high tolerance to the heavy metal cadmium. We found that this resistance is primarily caused by an enhanced function of a metal efflux pump, PCA1. Molecular analyses demonstrate that the enhancement can be l
Gastric cancer ( GC ) is the second leading cause of global cancer mortality. Particularly prevalent in Asia, most GC patients are diagnosed with advanced stage disease. In contrast, experimental evidence indicates that most cancer phenotypes ( uncontrolled growth, resistance to apoptosis, etc ) are largely governed not just by single pathways, but complex interactions between multiple pro- and anti-oncogenic signaling circuits. Narrowing this gap between the clinical and experimental arenas will require st
Genomic DNA plays a central role in many biological processes, primarily through interactions with proteins and other molecules. Although strictly lexical analysis of genomic DNA sequences has been a focus of contemporary biology, it is becoming increasingly clear that the physical, chemical, and structural properties of the DNA molecule can play key roles in the onset or progression of many regulatory events. Some of these attributes are not directly related to sequence in any simple way. Stress-induced DN
High-mobility-group box ( HMGB ) proteins are eukaryotic DNA-binding proteins that are involved in highly diverse functions ranging from sex determination to extracellular immune signaling. Members of this family are present in plants, fungi and animals. The filamentous ascomycete Podospora anserina contains 12 HMG-box genes. Of these, four have been previously characterized; three are mating-type genes that control fertilization and development of the fruit-body, whereas the last one encodes a transcriptio
The 2013–2016 West African Ebola virus disease epidemic was unprecedented in terms of the number of cases and survivors. Prior to this epidemic there was limited data available on the persistence of Ebola in survivors’ body fluids and the potential risk of transmission, including sexual transmission. A study was designed and implemented during the epidemic response operation in Sierra Leone. This publication describes study implementation methodology and key lessons learned. Challenges encountered during this study were encountered in the implementation and implementation of this publication.
Bacteria live in complex chemical microenvironments with spatio-temporal chemical concentration profiles shaped by nutrient supply, as well as nutrient depletion by surrounding bacteria of the same or other species. One way forward is to exploit our accumulated knowledge about their sensory systems, evolved to detect typical stimuli relevant to the organism, e. g. the concentration of a particular nutrient. The best-characterized bacterium is Escherichia coli, inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract of humans
The life-long supply of blood cells depends on the long-term function of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ). Because of their multi-potency and self-renewal capacity, they were thought to have indefinite lifespans. Here, we present a new model based on reliability theory to account for the diversity of lifespan of a stem cell population. We found that the best fit of the experimental data is provided by a model, where the repopulation failure kinetics are largely anti-persistent, or mean-reverting. Thus, fai
Approximately one-third of the world's population suffers from chronic helminth infections, with no effective vaccines currently available. Antibodies and alternatively activated macrophages ( AAM ) form crucial components of protective immunity against challenge infections with intestinal worms such as Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri ( Hp ). However, the mechanisms by which antibodies target these large multi-cellular parasites remain obscure. In the current study, we demonstrate that antibody-mediated im
Chromosome breakage is a major threat to genome integrity and cell survival. The most accurate way to repair DNA double strand breaks ( DSB ) is homologous recombination ( HR ) with an intact copy of the broken locus. Migrating DNA ends are protected by the Ku70-Ku80 complex ( Ku complex ) until a repair pathway is chosen and corresponding proteins recruited. In this study, we have developed a new, non-intrusive method which uses protein oligomerization rather than operator multiplicity to form visible foci. This method has been shown to be effective in a variety of diseases, including cancer and cancer.
Chagas disease ( American trypanosomiasis ) is a vector-borne disease primarily transmitted by a broad range of ecologically and evolutionary diversified triatomine species. Despite multinational control initiatives, vectorial transmission is still active in several countries and the disease remains a major public health concern in Latin America, where several million people are at risk of infection. Reinfections by T. cruzi are possible at least in animal models leading to lower or even hardly detectable p
Infection with any of the four types of dengue virus ( DENV-1-4 ) can lead to a range of outcomes, ranging from asymptomatic or subclinical infection to classical or severe infection. Patients with DHF/DSS are most often infants born to individuals experiencing a secondary DENVD infection, indicating a role for pre-existing DENv immunity in exacerbating densue disease. A major challenge for researchers has been identifying the specific immunologic factor ( s ) that contribute individually or in concert to d
Pattern formation in many developing systems depends on the formation and interpretation of morphogen gradients. The classical model of pattern formation conveyed by morphogens is typically illustrated by Wolpert's French Flag model. In the Drosophila wing imaginal disc, secreted Hedgehog ( Hh ) forms an extracellular gradient that organizes patterning along the anterior–posterior axis and specifies at least three different domains of gene expression. However, a direct correspondence between the borders of the two borders is not possible. This is due to the fact that the three borders correspond to one another.
The mechanisms by which ethanol and inhaled anesthetics influence the nervous system are poorly understood. Here we describe the positional cloning and characterization of a new mouse mutation isolated in an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea ( ENU ) forward mutagenesis screen for animals with enhanced locomotor activity. This mutation disrupts the homolog of the Caenorhabditis elegans unc-79 gene. While Lwt/Lwt homozygotes are perinatal lethal, Lightweight heterozygote phenotypes are dramatically hypersensitive to acut. The heterolog is the first to be mutated in a mouse mutant isolated from an animal with increased locomotory activity, and this mutation is a major cause of phenotypic differences in lightweight and heavy-weight mice.
Malaria remains one of the world's most devastating infectious diseases, and its successful control will require a multifaceted approach involving a combination of multiple strategies. A multitude of potential methods to prevent mosquito-to-human transmission exist, including several based on manipulating the mosquito's immune response against Plasmodium. One such mechanism is the Imd pathway, a conserved immune signaling pathway that has potent anti-P. falciparum activity. Silencing the expression of gene 
Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BMMSCs ) have been considered as a promising therapy in fibrotic diseases. However, they do not induce tissue rejection and exert a localized effect than the systemic classical pharmacological strategies. In this study, we investigated the anti-fibroticity potential and the regenerative effect of BMMCs in an experimental model of lung fibrosis induced by the fungal pathogen Paracoccidioides brasiliensis in a mouse model. We observed an increase of granulomatous i
Leishmania infantum is the main causative agent of zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) and also responsible for cases of human and canine disease. The recent geographical expansion of phlebotomine vectors towards northern latitudes or higher altitudes has been attributed to ongoing climate changes. Because seasonal phenomena are also sensitive to general variations in climate, current phenological data sets can provide a baseline for continuing investigations on sand fly population dynamics that may impa
Orientia tsutsugamushi is the causative agent of scrub typhus, a life-threatening disease characterized by fever, lymphadenopathy, rash and eschar that can be complicated by interstitial pneumonitis, meningitis and myocarditis. It is confined geographically to the Asia-Pacific region, and a billion of people are at risk and one million new cases arise each year. To date, no effective strategy has succeeded in generating long lasting, protective immunity to this particular infection despite aggressive attemp
Ants, like many other animals, use visual memory to follow extended routes through complex environments, but it is unknown how their small brains implement this capability. The mushroom body neuropils have been identified as a crucial memory circuit in the insect brain. We show that a spiking neural model of this circuit originally developed to describe fruitfly ( Drosophila melanogaster ) olfactory association, can also account for the ability of desert ants ( Cataglyphis velox ) to rapidly learn visual ro
Plants utilize an innate immune system to protect themselves from disease. While many molecular components of plant immunity resemble the innate immunity of animals, plants also have evolved a number of truly unique defense mechanisms, particularly at the physiological level. For example, when Arabidopsis protects itself against drought by abscising its cauline leaves, it uses the same set of signaling components as are required for the shedding of flower petals after fertilization. Here we develop a system in which the plant plants utilize a unique system that is able to detect and respond to the presence of disease in the host plant.
The detection of image motion is a major function of the visual system. It is needed for the trajectory prediction of moving objects and provides information about motion relative to the environment. To study the mechanisms underlying the computation of direction selectivity ( DS ) in SAC dendrites, electrical responses to expanding and contracting circular wave visual stimuli were measured via somatic whole-cell recordings and quantified using Fourier analysis. Fundamental and, especially, harmonic frequen
The number of pathogens that are required to infect a host, termed infective dose, varies dramatically across pathogen species. It has recently been predicted that this variation will depend on the mode of action of the molecules that pathogens use to facilitate their infection. Specifically, pathogens which use locally acting molecules will require a lower infection dose than those that use distantly acting proteins. Furthermore, it has also been suggested that pathogenic bacteria may be more virulent beca
Schistosomes are parasitic flatworms and causative agents of schistomiasis, a disease affecting circa 200 million people worldwide, primarily in underprivileged regions of the world. They infect the definitive host by pairing with a male worm, lodging in the male’s gynecophoral canal, and laying hundreds of eggs each day. In the absence of male worms, the female remains sexually immature and stunted in size. To identify whether microRNAs exert an effect on the transcriptome we use the completely unaware “miRNA-blind” approach to identify the effect of microRNA–blind.
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ( SARS ) is a severe emerging viral disease with high fatality characterized by fever, headache and severe respiratory symptoms including cough, dyspnea and pneumonia. Due to its high transmissibility among humans, after its first emergence in southern China in late 2002, it rapidly led to a global pandemic in 2003 and was marked as one of the most significant public health threats in the 21st century. Recently we report the latest results of our 5-year longitudinal surveil, which has been conducted for the first time for 5 years and is the result of a 5 year longitudinal survey. We have been able to obtain the results in 5 consecutive longitudinal surveys in China since 2002.
Soil transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections ( Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichuris trichiura, and the hookworms Necator americanus and Ancylostoma duodenale ) contribute significantly to morbidity in humans in endemic countries. The major means of controlling these infections is by the periodic administration of anthelmintic drugs. Given the fact that high levels of resistance have developed to these same drugs in roundworms of livestock, there is a need to monitor drug efficacy in human infections.
The tree-like structure of the mammalian lung is generated from branching morphogenesis, a reiterative process that is precisely regulated by numerous factors. How the cell surface and extra cellular matrix ( ECM ) molecules regulate this process is still poorly understood. Herein, we show that epithelial deletion of Heparan Sulfate ( HS ) synthetase Ext1 resulted in expanded branching tips and reduced branching number, associated with several mesenchymal developmental defects. We further demonstrate an exp
Cancer is a disease driven by selection for somatic mutations. These mutations range from single nucleotide changes to large-scale chromosomal aberrations such as deletion, duplications, inversions and translocations. While many such mutations have been cataloged in cancer cells via cytogenetics, gene resequencing, and array-based techniques ( i. e. comparative genomic hybridization ) there is now great interest in using genome sequencing to provide a comprehensive understanding of mutations that might prov
Chemotaxis involves the coordinated action of separable but interrelated processes: motility, gradient sensing, and polarization. We have hypothesized that these are mediated by separate modules that account for these processes individually and that, when combined, recreate most of the behaviors of chemotactic cells. Here, we describe a mathematical model where the modules are implemented in terms of reaction-diffusion equations. Migration and the accompanying changes in cellular morphology are demonstrated in the presence of a large number of morphological changes, such as the migration of cells from one cell to the next. This is the first demonstration of migration as a result of this process.
Spermatogenesis is essential for the generation of haploid male gametes required for sexual reproduction in higher eukaryotes. Meiotic prophase I is by far the longest phase of meiosis, lasting approximately three weeks in most mammals. The spliceosome is a large and flexible macromolecular machine with more than a hundred RNA and protein components. It is composed of the key protein arginine methyl transferase PRMT5, which supports splicing. TDRD6 also associates with the main protein core protein SmB in t
Bacterial populations that colonize a host can play important roles in host health, including serving as a reservoir that transmits to other hosts and from which invasive strains emerge. Studies of colonization dynamics have been based on assessment of whether serial samples represent a single population or distinct colonization events. With the use of whole genome sequencing to determine genetic d
Plants continuously generate new organs through the activity of populations of stem cells called meristems. This remarkable arrangement of organs is called phyllotaxy and varies according to particular plant species and growth conditions. It is now widely accepted that the plant hormone auxin plays a major role in this process. Current hypotheses propose that cellular hormone transporters of the PIN family would create local auxins maxima at precise positions, which in turn would lead to organ initiation. I
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) affects internal organs such as liver, spleen and bone marrow, and leads to death if left untreated. In 2015 over 23. 000 new cases were reported to the world health organization, while an overall case-fatality rate of 10% has been estimated. Previous investigations demonstrated the potential of IgG1 as a biomarker for monitoring clinical status in rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ), although using a crude lysate antigen ( CLA ) as capturing antigen. Replacing the CLA by specific 
Cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) is a group of protozoan diseases transmitted to human beings by the bite of female sandflies of the genera Phlebotidae. CL is thought to be exceedingly rare in endemic and nonendemic regions. The most common diagnostic approach used in these countries is still microscopic examination despite the advances in molecular diagnostic techniques and culture methods. In our large cohort of 317 patients with molecularly proven diagnosis of CL, we encountered a significant number of cas
Type 2 diabetes is associated with obesity and results from a combination of adipogenic and diabetogenic alleles. We have previously identified a QTL ( Nidd/SJL ) on distal chromosome 4 ( 2. 1 Mbp ) that aggravated and accelerated diabetes. In the critical interval, a retrotransposon ( IAPLTR1a ) in intron 3 disrupted the g
Alternative cell differentiation pathways are believed to arise from the concerted action of signalling pathways and transcriptional regulatory networks. However, the prediction of mammalian cells differentiation is currently a daunting challenge. In this work, we propose an integrated, comprehensive model of the regulatory network controlling the late stages of ( TCR+, CD4+ ) T helper ( Th ) differentiation. As most available data are qualitative, little or no quantitative information is available on the r
Transcription factors that drive complex patterns of gene expression during animal development bind to thousands of genomic regions throughout the genome, with quantitative differences in binding across bound regions mediating their activity. While we now have tools to characterize the DNA affinities of these proteins and to precisely measure their genome-wide distribution in vivo, our understanding of the forces that determine where and when they bind remains primitive. Here we use a thermodynamic model to study the force that determines where, when, and how the proteins bind in the animal.
Cell proliferation is a critical event in organ formation and it is regulated by multiple cellular signals. During development, individual cells interpret these signals to determine whether to continue proliferating or to induce cell cycle arrest and initiate differentiation. This process has received a great deal of attention, yet many aspects of this process have yet to be elucidated. The basic helix-loop-helix ( bHLH ) transcription factors are key regulatory molecules that control multiple developmental events.
Reversible phosphorylation is one of the major mechanisms of signal transduction, and signaling networks are critical regulators of cell growth and development. However, few of these networks have been delineated completely. Towards this end, quantitative phosphoproteomics is emerging as a useful tool enabling large-scale determination of relative protein-protein interactions in response to genetic or environmental perturbations. In this study, we propose a comprehensive quantitative analysis pipeline custo
Heteromorphic sex chromosomes ( e. g., XY in males or ZW in females ) have evolved independently many times in animals and plants. Dosage compensation, the process that equalizes X chromosome gene expression levels between the XY and XX sexes, and meiotic sex chromosome inactivation ( MSCI ) —the facultative heterochromatinization and early transcriptional silencing of the X and the Y chromosomes in germline cells entering meiosis in XY individuals—have evolved repeatedly. In Drosophila, dosage compensation—the process of equalizing X- and Y-chromosome gene levels in the male and female sexes—has evolved several times, including in humans and animals.
Citrobacter rodentium infection is a mouse model for the important human diarrheal infection caused by enteropathogenic E. coli ( EPEC ). The pathogenesis of both species is very similar and depends on their unique ability to form intimately epithelial “attachment/effacement” ( A/E ) lesions. These microcolonies must be dynamic and able to self-renew by continuous re-infection of the rapidly regenerating epithelium. It is unknown whether sustained intestinal A-E lesion pathology is achieved through the pers
Malaria’s genome contains a repertoire of ∼ 60 hypervariable and mutually distinct var genes, but repertoires differ between parasites, evolving rapidly through recombination and reassortment. In practice, however, only a fraction of each population's objects are likely to be sampled due to stochastic data collection or sequencing techniques. Although methods exists for quantifying population overlap under subsampled conditions, their bias is well documented and the uncertainty of their estimates cannot be explained.
Eukaryotic protein kinases regulate most cellular functions by phosphorylating targeted protein substrates through a highly conserved catalytic core. The active state of an EPK oscillates between open, intermediate, and closed conformations. Currently, the intramolecular interactions that regulate the active states mechanics are not well understood. Here, using cAMP-dependent proteins kinase as a representative model coupled with biochemical, biophysical, computational techniques, we define a set of interac
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia species of helminth worms. Globally, an estimated 68 million people are infected; with 36 million microfilaemic people and 36 millions people who are disabled or disfigured because of complications including lymphoedema, elephantiasis and scrotal hydrocoeles. The World Health Organization recommends systematic post-MDA surveillance using Transmission Assessment Surveys ( TAS ) for epidemiological assessment
Sex determination is the process by which an animal determines whether it will develop as a male or a female. In most animals the primary and secondary sex determination mechanisms are considered to lead to a stably differentiated sexual fate. However, in some animals, sex can be reversed at some point during their adult life cycles, such as in teleost fish. Here, we show that oocytes, or germ cells, are also required throughout the life of the animal to maintain the differentiated female state. We therefor, by showing that the oocyte and germ cell-producing cells in the fish are required for the development of a sexually differentiated male state, and that these cells also have a role in maintaining the female's state throughout her life cycle.
Hox genes are the major regulators of morphogenetic diversity along the anterior–posterior body axis of animals by regulating distinct sets of target genes. To achieve this high-regulatory specificity, it has been postulated that Hox proteins co-operate with other transcription factors to activate or repress their targets in a highly context-specific manner in vivo. However, only a few of these factors have been analyzed in some detail in Drosophila. Here, we analyze the regulation of the cell death gene re
Plants encounter a wide variety of pathogens. To defend against infection, plants rely on their organ surfaces as pre-formed barriers to infection. Plants have evolved an active, two-layered immune system. The first branch utilizes transmembrane receptors ( PRRs, or pattern recognition receptors ) which detect microbe-associated molecular patterns ( MAMPs ). MAMP detection elicits a rapid, relatively low-amplitude host transcriptional response, which is sufficient to halt growth of many microbes. Successful
DNA methylation is an important chromatin mark related to transposon silencing, gene imprinting, genome stability, and gene expression regulation. The Arabidopsis microrchidia ( VAR ) 3-9 homolog SUVH9 and the double-stranded RNA-binding protein IDN2 were thought to be components of a transcriptionally repressive pathway. In this study, we demonstrate that the RdDM components including Pol IV, Pol V, RDR2 and DRM2 interact with MORC6 to mediate transcriptional silence at a subset of MORCs target loci. Furth
Human malformations frequently show no clear Mendelian inheritance pattern, even when familial recurrence suggests a strong underlying genetic component. Such variability is generally defined as incomplete penetrance or variable expressivity, and it may be influenced by genetic background as well as by environmental factors. Predicting phenotypic outcomes for such cases is often an impossible challenge in clinical genetics. As a corollary, it has become clear that robustness of the wild-type ( WT ) phenotype is an important determinant of disease outcome.
Protein modifications play a major role for most biological processes in living organisms. Amino-terminal acetylation of proteins is a common modification found throughout the tree of life: the N- terminal of a nascent polypeptide chain becomes co-translationalally methylated, often after the removal of the initiating methionine residue. While the enzymes and protein complexes involved in these processes have been extensively studied, only little is known about the biological function of such modifications.
The ability of RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) III to efficiently recycle from termination to reinitiation is critical for abundant tRNA production during cellular proliferation, development and cancer. Yet understanding of the unique termination mechanisms used by RNap III is incomplete, as is its link to high transcription output in vivo are largely unknown. Here we used two genetic screens to screen for Rpc1 mutants with gain- and loss- of termination phenotypes in S. pombe. 122 point mutation mutants were mappe
The cell's ability to respond to internal and external cues depends largely on reversible post-translational modifications of proteins, such as phosphorylation, ubiquitylation or methylation. These modifications often occur on short unstructured stretches of protein and are read by domains that recognize the modified form. We have developed a method to predict the binding specificity of SH2-phosphopeptide complexes and the FoldX algorithm. Our method performs similarly to experimentally derived consensus se
The accumulation of amyloidogenic proteins is a pathological hallmark of neurodegenerative disorders, the most common of which is Alzheimer’s disease ( AD ). Recent work has shown that the isomerase activity of cyclophilin 40 ( CyP40 ), a PPIase, is regulated through its interaction with Hsp90, which regulates both secondary structure and aggregation propensity. In this study, we identified a novel disaggregation mechanism by which a cytoplasmic peptidyl-prolyl isomersase is capable of disaggregating tau ag, a protein that is an important component of the protein-protein complex in the brain.
Heterocyst differentiation in cyanobacteria filaments is one of the simplest examples of cellular differentiation and pattern formation in multicellular organisms. Despite the many experimental studies addressing the evolution and sustainment of this process, there is still a theoretical gap connecting these two macroscopic and microscopic processes. As an attempt to shed light on this issue, here we develop a simple mathematical model by incorporating the recent experimental results into the theoretical framework. We incorporate the results of recent theoretical studies and incorporate them into our theoretical approach.
The fight against onchocerciasis in Africa has boomed thanks to the Community Directed Treatment with Ivermectin ( CDTI ) program. However, in Cameroon, after more than 15 years of mass treatment, the disease is still above the non-transmission threshold. This study aimed to explore a possible association between people’s beliefs/perceptions of CDT program, their perceptions of the program and their adherence to ivermotin in three regions of Cameroon. A cross sectional survey was carried out in 30 clusters of people in a population-based approach. The results of this study showed that people are more likely to be adherent to CDTE program than to follow CDTA program in other regions.
Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have resulted in the identification of thousands of genetic variants that are associated with human traits and diseases. However, there is no strong evidence that epigenetic alterations are directly causal for disease pathogenesis. In this study, we combined SNP and DNA methylation data with measurements of protein biomarkers for cancer, inflammation or cardiovascular disease, to investigate the relative contribution of genetics and epigenetics to variation in biomar
Natural killer ( NK ) cells are cytotoxic innate lymphocytes that exert a significant influence on the control of viral infection. In response to this, many viruses encode strategies to evade detection and elimination by NK cells. This is particularly the case with herpesviruses, where their lifelong persistence depends upon a balance between immune evasion and control that has arisen due to millennia of coevolution between virus and host. A clear example of this is seen with infections caused by the human 
Apparent motion ( AM ) is a type of illusory motion that can be perceived when two stimuli alternately presented at different locations can evoke a percept of a stimulus continuously moving between the two locations. The neural mechanism underlying this apparent motion is thought to be increased activation of primary visual cortex ( V1 ) neurons tuned to locations along the AM path. AM masking, which refers to the reduced detectability of the apparent movement of an apparent stimulus, has been taken as evid
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ), the first human oncogenic retrovirus that was originally described in 1980, has been received much scientific attention due to its ability to transform rodent fibroblasts and human primary T cells in the presence of IL-2. Tax interacts with more than 100 host cell proteins and undergoes heavy post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation, ubiquitination, sumoylation and acetylation to control or modulate its cellular activities. We reconstituted Tax-, a human T cell leukemia- virus that has previously been reported to have been previously described as a novel human immunodeficiency virus, but has not been well-studied in vivo. In this study, we re-introduced Tax into the human immune system.
A consistent determinant of the establishment success of alien species appears to be the number of individuals that are introduced to found a population ( propagule pressure ), yet variation in the form of this relationship has been largely unexplored. Here, we present the first quantitative systematic review in this form, using Bayesian meta-analytical methods. Our analyses show that the relationship between propagation and establishment is consistent across a broad range of taxa and life histories, and that it is a consistent feature of life history.
Interleukin 17A ( IL-17A ), a mediator implicated in chronic and severe inflammatory diseases, enhances the production of pro-inflammatory mediators by attenuating decay of the encoding mRNAs. A major mRNA decay pathway is mediated by AU-rich-elements ( AREs ) in the 3′-untranslated region, which are found in 8% of human transcripts encoding inflammatory signals, transcription factors, proteins controlling the cell cycle, and many other classes of proteins, affecting virtually all cellular and physiological 
African animal trypanosomiasis ( AAT ) is one of the most important diseases limiting agricultural output in affected areas. The chronic form of HAT, caused by T. brucei gambiense, is found in southeast Uganda, while the acute form is confined to east and southern Africa. In recent years the number of cases reported to the World Health Organization has been steadily declining to a fifty year low of 10, 000 cases in 2009, a spread linked to movement of infected cattle following restocking. Cattle act as long
Histone acetyltransferases ( HATs ) and histone deacetylases are involved in the regulation of X-chromosomal and autosomal genes as part of the MSL and the NSL complexes, respectively. While the function of these enzymes as dosage compensation regulators is fairly well understood, their role in gene regulation is still poorly characterized. Here, we report a comprehensive ChIP–seq analysis of four N SL complex members ( N1, N3, MBD-R2, and MCRS2 ) throughout the Drosophila melanogaster genome. Strikingly, t
Facioscapulohumeral dystrophy ( FSHD ) is a progressive muscular dystrophymic disease caused by decreased epigenetic repression of the D4Z4 macrosatellite repeats and ectopic expression of DUX4, a retrogene encoding a germline transcription factor encoded in each repeat. Unaffected individuals generally have more than 10 repeats arrayed in the subtelomeric region of chromosome 4, whereas the most common form of this disease is caused in skeletal muscle. In this study, we have generated transgenic mice carrying the genetic material for the first time that can be carried out in a mouse model.
Malaria vaccine candidate Apical Membrane Antigen-1 ( AMA1 ) induces protection, but only against parasite strains that are closely related to the vaccine. Understanding the structural basis of cross-strain invasion inhibition would allow for the rational development and testing of a second generation vaccine that targets parasite blood stages.
Asymmetric cell divisions often result from the displacement of the mother cell's mitotic spindle to an asymmetric position within the cell before cytokinesis. Asymmetry in size of cells alone is likely to be important to partition determinants precisely, to allow large stem cells to divide repeatedly without becoming depleted of cytoplasm, and to permit meiosis in oocytes to produce small polar bodies and large eggs. While recent progress has begun to unveil the molecular mechanisms of mitosis, far less is known about the mechanisms underlying the asymmetry of cell-cell divisions and how they are partitioned precisely.
High-altitude hypoxia ( reduced inspired oxygen tension due to decreased barometric pressure ) exerts severe physiological stress on the human body. Two regions where humans have lived for millennia are the Andean Altiplano and the Tibetan Plateau. Populations living in these regions exhibit unique circulatory, respiratory, and hematological adaptations to life at high altitude. Although these responses have been well characterized physiologically, their underlying genetic basis remains unknown. We performe
Double strand DNA breaks ( DSBs ) are dangerous events that can result from various causes including environmental assaults or the collapse of DNA replication. The choice of repair pathways is important to maintain genomic integrity. Here we report that inverted DNA repeats can form two types of unusual DNA structures, and the choice between these structures depends on the length of the spacer separating the IRs. In particular, we show that the long ( 12-bp ) and short ( 1-kb ) spacers are predominantly inv
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen capable of causing both acute and chronic infections in susceptible hosts. Chronic infections are thought to be caused by bacterial biofilms. These microbial communities encased in an extracellular matrix that enable long-term survival in the host. The aim of this research was to develop an animal model that would allow an in vivo study of the bacterial and host response during biofilm infections. At 24 h post oral infection of a Drosophila melanogaster ho
Behavior is a trait that is particularly well suited for exploring genetic mechanisms underlying phenotypic plasticity, as it is an evolutionarily labile trait. Social behaviors, in particular, can be markedly variable among closely related species, and often display significant individual variability within a species. The vasopressin 1a receptor gene ( Avpr1a ) provides an excellent opportunity to explore both of these potential mechanisms of gene expression divergence. Previous work has suggested that bot
Transcription is a source of genetic instability in eukaryotic cells. High transcription rates can result in increased recombination and mutagenesis, and a variety of factors have an influence on this relationship, including the collision between replication forks and the transcription machinery. Transcription of the switch ( S ) regions of immunoglobulin genes in B cells generates stable R-loops that are targeted by Activation Induced Cytidine Deaminase ( AID ), triggering the formation of C-rich template 
Coordination between cell division and chromosome replication is essential for a cell to produce viable progeny. In the commonly accepted view, Escherichia coli realize this coordination via the accurate positioning of its cell divisions relative to the nucleoids. However, E. coli lacking proper positioning is still successfully propagating. Here we characterize how these cells partition their chromosomes into daughters during such asymmetric divisions. Using quantitative time-lapse imaging, we show that E. coli in the general view of coordination between the positioning and the position of their cells in relation to their nucleoid nucleosides is able to propagate successfully.
Epitope-based vaccines ( EVs ) have a wide range of applications: from therapeutic to prophylactic approaches, from infectious diseases to cancer. The development of an EV is based on the knowledge of target-specific antigens from which immunogenic peptides are derived from. Such epitopes form the key components of the EV. Due to regulatory, economic, and practical concerns, the number of epitope that can be included in an EVs is limited. Furthermore, as the major histocompatibility complex is highly polymorphic, it is important to develop a diverse set of EVs that are able to include the most important antigen in a peptide.
The majority of HIV-1 infections in women occur through vaginal intercourse, in which virus-containing semen is deposited on the cervico-vaginal mucosa. Semen contains many cytokines and we, among others, have found that the seminal cytokine network is deeply modified by HIV infection. Here, we investigated the effect of interleukin ( IL ) -7, one of the most prominent cytokin in semen of healthy individuals, on HIV sexual transmission in an ex vivo system of human vaginal tissue. We show that IL-7 has a profound effect in the secretion of a number of inflammatory molecules that are important for HIV transmission.
Arboviruses infect arthropod vectors and induce antiviral responses that control their replication. The most prominent of these are the RNA interference ( RNAi ) pathways, which are characterized by the production of virus-derived small RNAs of 25–29 and 21 nucleotides, respectively. Virus-specific siRNAs are produced through the PIWI-interacting RNA ( piRNA ) pathway and are loaded into the exo-siRNA pathway effector protein Argonaute 2 ( Ago2 ). In Aedes aegypti cells, Zika virus ( ZIKV ) -specific small 
Sporotrichosis is a subcutaneous mycosis with a worldwide distribution that is currently notable for areas of especially high endemicity in Latin America. However, in Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil, this infection may also involve other sites beyond the skin, such as lymphatic vessels, muscles, fascia, cartilage, bones, and bones. Historically, Sporothrix schenckii has been attributed to a single species. In this study, we determined whether S. brasiliensis is associated with clinical manifestations of sporot
Transcriptional “dark matter” has emerged as a new technology that does not suffer from many of the limitations of array platforms such as cross-hybridization. In recent years established views of transcription have been challenged by the observation that a much larger portion of mammalian genomes is transcribed than can be accounted for by currently annotated genes, but the quantity and nature of these additional transcripts remains unclear. Here, we have used data from single- and paired-end RNA-Seq and tRNA sequencing platforms to study the number of transcripts that are encoded by genes in the mammalian genome. We have found that more than one-third of human genomes transcribe more transcripts than previously thought.
The ability to design thermostable proteins offers enormous potential for the development of novel protein bioreagents. In this work, a combined computational and experimental method was developed to increase the Tm of the flavin mononucleotide based fluorescent protein Bacillus Subtilis YtvA LOV domain by 31 Celsius, thus extending its applicability in thermophilic systems. The adopted method is simple and effective, can be applied to other important proteins where other methods have difficulties, and ther
Lutzomyia sand flies are the predominant vectors of the protozoan disease leishmaniasis in the New World. Here we report the results of screening a tropical forest assemblage of sand fly species for infection by both Leishmania and a microbe that can potentially serve in vector population control, the cytoplasmically transmitted rickettsia, Wolbachia pipientis. We collected, sorted and then used DNA sequences to determine the diversity and probable phylogenetic relationships of Phlebotominae occurring in an area of tropical forests that is known to be a prime target for vector control.
Human Cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) establishes a latent reservoir in the haematopoietic cells of the bone marrow. It is likely that sporadic reactivation and shedding – although subclinical – is important for the sero-prevalence of HIV infection. However, it is also important to understand the molecular and physiological cues that are important in this event. In this study, we have addressed the role of ERK-MAPK and stress activated kinase ( MSK ) signalling in initiating the induction of latent infection in de
The synthesis of ribosomes, the protein-manufacturing entities in cells, is fundamental to all of life. As such, it is surprising that defects are associated with a growing number of inherited disorders. We previously determined that the nucleolar protein NOL11 is essential for optimal pre-rRNA transcription and processing in human tissue culture cells. However, its role in the development of a multicellular organism remains unknown. Here, we reveal a critical function for nol11 in vertebrate craniofacial d
Leptospirosis is one of the most common zoonotic infectious diseases worldwide. The lack of an adequate laboratory test is a major barrier for diagnosis, especially during the early stages of illness, when antibiotic therapy is most effective. Therefore, there is an urgent need for an efficient diagnostic test for this life threatening disease. In order to identify new targets that could be used as diagnostic makers for leptopirology, we constructed a protein microarray chip comprising 61% of Leptira interr
Mosquito immunity studies have focused mainly on characterizing immune effector mechanisms elicited against parasites, bacteria and more recently viruses. However, the mechanisms that trigger the immune response against entomopathogenic fungi remain poorly understood, despite their ubiquitous nature and their unique invasion route that bypasses the midgut epithelium, an important immune tissue and physical barrier. Here, we used the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae as a model to investigate the role of the mosquito immune system in the development of malaria immunity. We found that the vector was able to evade the host's immune barrier by bypassing the gut epithelialium.
Dengue virus host factors ( DENV HFs ) that are essential for the completion of the infection cycle in the mosquito vector and vertebrate host represent potent targets for transmission blocking. In this study, we investigated the ability of four putative and non-inhibitor compounds, bafilomycin, mycophenolic acid, castanospermine, and deoxynojirimycin ( DNJ; inhibitor of glucosidase ), to block virus infection of adult A. aegypti mosquitoes. We administered these compounds by various treatment methods that 
Cell volume changes are ubiquitous in normal and pathological activity of the brain. Nevertheless, we know little of how cell volume affects neuronal dynamics. We here performed the first detailed study of cell swelling together with dynamic ion concentrations and oxygen supply into Hodgkin-Huxley type spiking dynamics, and we demonstrate the spontaneous transition between epileptic seizure and spreading depression states as the cell swells and contracts in response to changes in osmotic pressure. Our use o
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is a thermally dimorphic fungus that causes the most prevalent systemic mycosis that is geographically confined to Latin America. The pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1β, which is mainly derived from the activation of the cytoplasmic multiprotein complex inflammasome, is an essential host factor against opportunistic fungal infections. In this study, we found that murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells responded to P. brasilensis yeast cells infection in a spleen tyrosine kinasome. This study was the first study to show that the immune response to a yeast cell infection is mediated by a bone- marrow derived cell.
Toxoplasma gondii, a common brain-tropic parasite, is capable of infecting most nucleated cells, including astrocytes and neurons, in vitro. Yet in vivo, the parasite is primarily found in neurons. In vitro data showing that interferon-γ-stimulated neurons are persistently infected suggest that neurons alone are not incidentally infected. Here we test this theory by using a novel model of parasite-mouse interactions that allows us to mark and track host cells that directly interact with parasites, even in the presence of a single parasite.
Cell motility is a fundamental biological phenomenon that underlies many physiological processes in health and disease, including wound healing, embryogenesis, immune response, and metastatic spread of cancer cells. Mechanisms of the lamellipodial dynamics, such as growth and spreading of a flat actin network wrapped in plasma membrane and myosin-powered contraction of this network, are mechanical in nature. One model system, the fish epithelial keratocyte cell, contributed very prominently to the understan
Protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) networks represent biomolecules such as genes or proteins. These interactions could be of many different types, including functional, genetic, and physical interactions. Understanding these complex networks is a fundamental issue in systems biology. In this paper, we present a novel technique to assess the confidence levels of known interactions and thus for guiding future biological experiments. Our approach achieves specificity of 85% and sensitivity of 90%, respectively, for the respectivel
Trinucleotide repeat expansions within non-coding regions of RNA cause pathogenesis in a number of human neurological and neurodegenerative diseases, including myotonic dystrophy type 1 ( DM1 ), fragile X-associate tremor and ataxia syndrome ( FXTAS ) and Huntington's disease-like 2 ( HDL2 ). It is now recognized, however, that more than 70% of genomic loci show evidence of transcription from both sense and anti-sense strands in the mammalian genome, raising the possibility that human trinotide expansion di
Soft rot disease is economically one of the most devastating bacterial diseases affecting plants worldwide. In this study, we present novel insights into the phylogeny and virulence of soft rot model Pectobacterium sp. SCC3193, which was isolated from a diseased potato stem in Finland in the early 1980s. Genomic approaches, including proteome and genome comparisons, revealed that P. wasabiae has been unnoticed but present in potato fields worldwide for a long time. The genomic approaches and in planta exper
The mitochondrial protein repertoire varies depending on the cellular state. Protein component modifications caused by mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) depletion are related to a wide range of human diseases; however, little is known about how mt proteome changes under such dysfunctional states. In this study, we investigated the systemic alterations of mt DNA-depleted ( ρ0 ) mitochondria by using network analysis of gene expression data. By modularizing the quantified proteomics data into protein functional net, our study showed that the protein-functional net can be modularized into a protein function net.
The molecular machinery of life relies on complex multistep processes that involve numerous individual transitions, such as molecular association and dissociation steps, chemical reactions, and mechanical movements. The corresponding transition rates can be typically measured in vitro but not in vivo. Here, we develop a general method by which we can quantitatively compare the kinetics of such processes in different environments. We introduce the ‘kinetic distance’, i. e., a distance metric that allows the 
The ages of pathogenic bacteria have been estimated as reflecting millions of years of evolution. Age estimates for bacteria are higher than those of viruses, many of which appeared a few hundred years ago, primarily because many bacterial estimates are based on a supposedly universal inter-species molecular clock rate, but that rate was calibrated using estimates of geological dates that are no longer accepted. We therefore estimated the short-term rates of mutation and recombination in Helicobacter pylori, a bacterium that is thought to be the oldest pathogen in the world.
Photoreception in the mammalian retina is not restricted to rods and cones but extends to a subset of retinal ganglion cells expressing the photopigment melanopsin ( mRGCs ). These cells are known to drive such reflex light responses as circadian photoentrainment and pupillomotor movements. By contrast, until now there has been no direct assessment of their contribution to conventional visual pathways. Here, we address this deficit by using new reporter lines. We show that the projection pattern of these cells is different from that of the cells that are expressed in rods or cones, and that their projection patterns are similar to those of other cells.
HIV-1 infection is associated with an early and profound depletion of mucosal memory CD4+ T cells, a population that plays an indispensable role in the regulation of isotype switching and transepithelial transport of antibodies. In this study, we addressed whether the accumulation of the loss of these memory cells results in altered humoral responses specific to microbial and food antigens encountered at intestinal surfaces. We present evidence of a significant increase in IgM levels and a decrease of IgG/I, and we show evidence that the increase of this memory cell population leads to an increased in antibody levels.
In biology any growing population eventually ends up saturating the carrying capacity of its environment determined e. g. by nutrient availability. The same is true for economies where finite pool of new customers and/or natural resources inevitably sets a limit on growth of companies. Population dynamics in saturated environments is often described by neutral “community drift” models. In this paper we introduce and model the saturated-state dynamics of populations exposed to episodic random collapses or ex
The chemotaxis system of Escherichia coli is one of the most thoroughly studied paradigms of simple behavior. Due to the significant competitive advantage conferred by chemical reactions and to high evolution rates in bacteria, the system is expected to be highly optimized. Bacteria follow gradients by performing temporal comparisons of chemoeffector concentrations along their runs, a strategy which is most efficient given their size and swimming speed. Concentration differences are detected by a sensory sy
Thymic epithelial cells ( TECs ) are essential for establishing central tolerance by expressing a diverse array of self-peptides that delete autoreactive thymocytes and/or divert them into the regulatory T cell lineage. Activation of the NFκB signaling pathway is indispensable for mTEC maturation and proliferation resulting in proper medullary region formation. In this study we show that the Stat3 transgene also plays a key role in the development and homeostasis of MHCIIloCD80lo mTCs. Expression of a constitutively distinct set of proteins is required for the proper regulation of mMHCIlo CD80L mTRs and for proper proliferation and mCIILloMTC mucosal cell differentiation. We show here that this gene also contributes to the establishment of central T cells.
Clostridium difficile is an anaerobic spore-forming bacterium that is a major cause of nosocomial diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis, a potentially lethal disease. The largest and most extensively studied set of small noncoding RNAs ( sRNAs ) acts by modulating the translation and/or stability of specific mRNA targets in response to changes in the environment. In this study, we used an in silico approach to identify 511 sRNA candidates in both intergenic and coding regions of the genome. This global appr
The liver-specific microRNA miR-122, which has essential roles in liver development and metabolism, is a key proviral factor for hepatitis C virus ( HCV ). Despite its crucial role in the liver and the life cycle, little is known about the molecular mechanism of miRNA expression regulation by infection. Here, we show that the HC virus core protein inhibits GLD-2, a non-canonical cytoplasmic poly ( A ) polymerase, by promoting its destabilization via the inhibition of its terminal mononucleotidyl transferase. Our work shows that a viral core-protein inhibits the polymer-based poly-poly ( B ) polyase by destabilizing its polymer with the help of the inhibitory effector, the terminal polymer transfer enzyme.
Trypanosomes are transmitted by tsetse flies and cause disease in humans and livestock throughout sub-Saharan Africa. Although wildlife and cattle show evidence of clinical tolerance to the parasites, until now there has been no evidence for acquired immunity to natural infections. We discovered a distinct peak and decrease in age prevalence of T. brucei s. l. infection in wild African lions that is consistent with being driven by an exposure-dependent increase in cross-immunity following infections with th
Coagulation, mediated by a family of serine proteases ( factors ) and a key group of blood cells ( platelets ), is directly relevant to human health and has been suggested by Somogyi and Greller to be an ideal candidate for in silico drug discovery. In this study, mathematical modeling and sensitivity analysis were used to explore the working hypothesis that mechanistic models of human cascades, despite model uncertainty, can be computationally screened for points of fragility, and that these sensitive points are sensitively screened.
Phage therapy is the use of bacteriophages as antimicrobial agents for the control of pathogenic and other problem bacteria. It has previously been argued that successful application of phage therapies requires a good understanding of the non-linear kinetics of bacterial–phage interactions. Here we combine experimental and modelling approaches to make a detailed examination of such interactions for Campylobacter jejuni and a suitable virulent Phage in an in vitro system. We find that even an apparently simprophage is able to show that it is not a simpel, but a very simper. This is a surprising finding, as it has been suggested that the interactions between bacteria and phages are not linear in nature.
Schistosomiasis is a devastating disease caused by parasitic flatworms of the genus Schistomosoma. It affects over 260 million people worldwide especially in tropical and sub-tropical regions. The freshwater snail Biomphalaria glabrata acts as an obligate intermediate host for the parasite, which is the causative agent of intestinal schistoiasis in Africa and South America. This unique and long-standing host-parasite relationship presents an opportunity to study both the importance of conserved immunologica
Aedes aegypti and Ae. polynesiensis are the main vectors of dendritic cell disease and a secondary vector of Zika virus. A promising approach to quantify the human-vector contact relies on the detection and quantification of antibodies directed against mosquito
Pathogenicity of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) has been attributed to its facile adaptation to the intracellular milieu of human macrophages. To explore this process, we asked whether adaptation also required interference with the metabolic machinery of the host cell. Temporal profiling of metabolic flux, in cells infected with differently virulent strains, confirmed that this was indeed the case. Subsequent analysis identified the core subset of host reactions that were targeted. This synthesis then p
Meiosis generates haploid gametes from diploid cells by coupling a single round of replication with two successive chromosomes segregation events: meiosis I, in which homologous chromosomes segregate away from each other and Meiosis II, where sister chromatids are partitioned. To ensure proper segregation, physical linkages must be introduced between homogens by processes that occur during meiotic prophase. Homolog pairing, the assembly of the synaptonemal complex ( SC ), and crossover recombination are important steps in ensuring proper chromosome segregation.
Aedes albopictus is a tropical invasive species which in the last decades spread worldwide, also colonizing temperate regions of Europe and US, where it has become a public health concern due to its ability to transmit a large variety of arboviruses, as well as severe nuisance problems caused by its aggressive daytime outdoor biting behaviour. While several studies have been carried out in order to predict the potential limits of the species expansions based on eco-climatic parameters, few studies on the sp
Phthiocerol dimycocerosates ( DIM ) are major virulence factors of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ), in particular during the early step of infection when bacilli encounter their host macrophages. However, their cellular and molecular mechanisms of action remain unknown. We investigated the role of Dim in the receptor-dependent phagocytosis and the prevention of phagosomal acidification. The effects on the host cell envelope required a state of the membrane fluidity, as demonstrated by experiments conduct
The brain is a complex system organized at multiple spatial scales, and the concerted interactions between these multiple scales of organization are probably crucial for the emergence of its computational power. For this reason, finding an appropriate mathematical description of the brain at the mesoscopic scale is of fundamental importance for unveiling its emergent properties. However, many interesting problems in neuroscience involve the study of networks composed of a few tens of neurons. Nonetheless, m
Diverse genetic targets and amplification methods have been utilized for the detection, identification and quantification of Leishmania in lesions and other tissues of dermal leishmaniasis. However, the persistence of parasites in extralesional tissues and the possibility of their persistence following parasite death has raised questions concerning the interpretation of its amplification from blood and apparently healthy tissues as indicative of viability and a diagnostic target for diverse microbial infect
In metazoans, each cell type follows a characteristic, spatio-temporally regulated DNA replication program. Histone modifications and chromatin binding proteins ( CBPs ) are fundamental for a faithful progression and completion of this process. However, no individual HM is strictly indispensable for origin function, suggesting that HMs may act combinatorially in analogy to the histone code hypothesis for transcriptional regulation. In contrast to gene expression however, the relationship between combination
Dengue fever, caused by the flavivirus Dengue virus ( DENV ), is the most important and widespread arthropod-borne viral disease, causing at least 25, 000 deaths annually, with the largest disease burden in tropical and subtropical regions. In this study, we used a combination of molecular clock, coalescent and discrete phylogeographic models to reconstruct the past movements of DENv serotypes 1 through 3 on a global scale, focusing on South American countries. We also use 2D random-walk models that conside
Understanding how neural populations encode sensory information thereby leading to perception and behavior remains an important problem in neuroscience. When investigating the neural code, one must take into account the fact that neural activities are not independent but are actually correlated with one another. Such correlations are seen ubiquitously and have a strong impact on neural coding. Here we investigated how differences in the antagonistic center-surround receptive field ( RF ) organization across different regions of the brain affected the development of a sensory perception system.
Over repeat presentations of the same stimulus, sensory neurons show variable responses. This “noise” is typically correlated between pairs of cells, and a question with rich history in neuroscience is how these noise correlations impact the population's ability to encode the stimulus. Here, we consider a very general setting for population coding, investigating how information varies as a function of noise correlation. We show that a diverse set of correlations can improve coding performance. Many of these
Chronic coinfections of Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa frequently fail to respond to antibiotic treatment, leading to significant patient morbidity and mortality. Currently, the impact of interspecies interaction on the pathogenicity and antibiotic susceptibility of individual organisms remains poorly understood. In this study, we utilize a panel of clinical isolates to demonstrate that the presence of the bactericidal activity of S. aurus in a variable strain-dependent manner and further
Thrombocytopenia and platelet dysfunction are commonly observed in patients with dengue virus ( DENV ) infection and may contribute to complications such as bleeding and plasma leakage. In two observational studies in Bandung and Jepara, Indonesia, we show that the binding of the coagulation protein von Willebrand factor ( VWF ) to platelets and removal of sialic acid ( desialylation ) are two well-known mechanisms of platel clearance, but whether these conditions also contributes to throm boviral infection is not well understood. Our study provides evidence for the importance of these two mechanisms in the clearance of blood plasma from the virus, and also provides insight into the mechanisms that may be involved.
A “bidirectional gene pair” comprises two adjacent genes whose transcription start sites are neighboring and directed away from each other. These promoters are often associated with genes that function in DNA repair, with the potential to participate in the development of cancer. No connection between these gene pairs and cancer has been previously investigated. Using the database of spliced-expressed sequence tags ( ESTs ), we identified the most complete collection of human transcripts under the control o
Sex is a universal feature of eukaryotic organisms, yet tremendous variation in sex determination mechanisms exists even among closely related species, or among individuals within a species. In several taxa where sex is established at fertilization by genetic factors, such as in many vertebrates and insects, an entire chromosome co-segregates with the sex determining genes ( sex chromosomes ), but superficially similar karyotypes may conceal the true extent of sex chromosome variation. Here, we use whole-geometries to show that the same sex-chromosome can be found in several species and in insects.
Zika virus ( ZIKV ) is an emerging mosquito-borne pathogen that is linked to the development of severe fetal abnormalities that include spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, hydranencephaly, and placental insufficiency that may cause intrauterine growth restriction. In this study, we investigated maternal blood samples from six mothers who gave birth to babies with microcephalic abnormalities in Hawaii between 2009 and 2012. We found evidence of a trend toward significance with the presence of zikaV IgM and IgG. Zika V, which is known to be associated with a significant increase in the number of cases of birth defects, was also found to have a strong association with fetal microchia.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a necrotizing skin disease which has been reported in over thirty countries. The mode of transmission to humans is still not clear although a few hypotheses have been advanced and tested. In this study, we source-tracked human BU infections to 10 water bodies, in four BU endemic communities in Ghana. We used VNTR as an identifying tool to identify human isolates, and those from 14 BU patients within the same study area. Length polymorphism was confirmed with sequencing. MU was present in the presence of MU ( MU ), which was found to be present at the site of BU infection, but was not associated with the location of the infection. This was the first time that MU had been identified in a BU patient.
Alien species are a major component of human-induced environmental change. Variation in the numbers of alien species found in different areas is likely to depend on a combination of anthropogenic and environmental factors, with human activities affecting the number of species introduced to new locations, and when they are able to persist there. However, global spatial and temporal variation in these drivers is poorly understood. Here, we analyse an extensive new database of bird introductions to explore wha
The nucleolus is the largest visible structure in the mammalian cell nucleus and the site of ribosome biogenesis. As such, its activity is a key determinant of a cell's capacity to grow and proliferate, and its size and morphology are used as clinical markers of cancer and tumour suppression. We previously showed that upstream Binding Factor ( UBF ), a unique multi-HMGB-box protein first identified as a co-factor in RNA polymerase I ( RPI/PolI ) transcription, is essential for embryo development beyond moru
The concept of morphogens—secreted molecules that spread from their source of synthesis and activate signaling in distant cells to direct tissue patterning—was proposed more than a century ago. However, evidence that resolved this controversy was not provided until the mid-1990’s, and was based on landmark studies in Drosophila on the evolutionarily conserved signaling pathways Wingless/Wnt and Decapentaplegic/BMP. Herein, we tested this foundational principle in the adult intestine, where Wg secretion and 
Group A streptococcus ( GAS ) is a globally significant human pathogen, responsible for 600, 000 cases of invasive infection each year, approximately 25% of which are fatal. A key process in invasive disease is the ability to accumulate plasmin at the cell surface, however the role of host activators in this process is poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate for the first time that the urokinase-type ( uPA ) contributes to the recruitment and subsequent disease initiation in vivo using a mouse model of infe
The H. pylori cag pathogenicity island encodes components of a type IV secretion system ( T4SS ) that translocates the bacterial oncoprotein CagA into gastric epithelial cells and causes numerous cellular alterations, including cytoskeletal alterations and disruption of cellular junctions, and altered cellular adhesion and polarity. Here, we utilized a mass spectrometry-based approach to reveal co-purification of three proteins that are required for the translocation of the viral oncag Aag into host cells.
Bovine tuberculosis ( bTB ) is a chronic disease of cattle caused by Mycobacterium bovis, a member of the tuberculosis complex group of bacteria. Vaccination of cows might offer a long-term solution for controlling the disease and priority has been given to the development of a cattle vaccine. Identification of biomarkers in tuberculosis research remains elusive and the goal is to identify host correlates of protection that could help to facilitate vaccine development. We hypothesized that by studying globa
Microtubule organizing centers ( ncMTOCs ) are found in most differentiated cells, but the molecular basis for these functions has been elusive. We optimized a tissue-specific degradation system to test the role of the essential centrosomal microtubulin ring complex ( γ-TuRC ) and AIR-1/Aurora A at the apicobasal axis, where they both localize in Caenorhabditis elegans embryonic intestinal epithelial cells. Surprisingly, we find that the core component GIP-2/GCP3 is required to recruit other known proteins 
We compared 11 different widely-used approaches to phasing human genomes using the publicly available ‘Genome-In-A-Bottle’ ( GIAB ) phased version of the NA12878 genome as a gold standard. Our results suggest that a hybrid or combined approach that leverages: 1. population-based approaches, 2. either genome-wide sequencing read data or parental genotype, and 3. a large reference panel of variant and haplotype frequencies, provides a fast and efficient way to produce highly accurate phase-resolved individual.
Type-III protein secretion systems are utilized by gram-negative pathogens to secrete building blocks of the bacterial flagellum, virulence effectors from the cytoplasm into host cells, and structural subunits of a needle complex. The type-II secretion apparatus utilizes both the energy of proton motive force and ATP hydrolysis to energize substrate unfolding and translocation. In the present work, we demonstrate that the Salmonella pathogenicity island 1 virulent-associated type III ATPase is required for the secretion of type I-type III protein-sensory system.
Bistability plays a central role in the gene regulatory networks ( GRNs ) controlling many essential biological functions, including cellular differentiation and cell cycle control. However, establishing the network topologies that can exhibit bistable networks remains a challenge, in part due to the exceedingly large variety of GRN that exist for even a small number of components. We begin to address this problem by employing chemical reaction network theory ( CRNT ) in a comprehensive in silico survey to study the nature of the diverse chemical reactions networks that are required for such a network to function.
Orofacial clefting is amongst the most common birth defects, with both genetic and environmental components. Although numerous studies have been undertaken to investigate the complexities of the genetic etiology of this heterogeneous condition, this factor remains incompletely understood. In the current study, we describe mutations in the HYAL2 gene as a cause of syndromic orofoam clefts in humans and mice, and describe the first molecular explanation for cor triatriatum sinister in mice. Our findings highl
In mammals, auditory hair cells do not regenerate and therefore stereocilia bundles endure sound-induced deflections throughout an organism's life. However, the molecular mechanisms of this regenerative process are unknown. Current models postulate that tip links are formed by a Ca2+-dependent heteromeric interaction between PCDH15 at the lower end of the link and cadherin 23 ( CDH23 ), which are both required for normal hearing and vision in mammals. We developed a novel implementation of backscatter electron scannin, a mechanism of which is known to be involved in the formation of tip link links. This mechanism is not well understood, however, because it is still poorly understood.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most prevalent arbovirus in the tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world, causing a spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from mild fever ( DF ) to more life threatening forms ( DHF ). Although numerous efforts have been made to understand the molecular mechanisms that trigger the transition from DF to the potentially lethal form, the mechanisms involved are not fully understood. We performed a mass spectrometry-based metabolomic profiling of sera from adult DF and D, as well as in adult D and DF, in order to gain a better understanding of how the onset of DF is triggered.
The metabolic pathway of purine nucleotides in parasitic protozoa is a potent drug target for treatment of parasitemia. Guanosine 5’-monophosphate reductase ( GMPR ), which catalyzes the reductive deamination of guanosines from their precursors in the presence of NADPH, plays an important role in this interconversion to maintain the intracellular balance of their concentration. However, only a few studies have been reported at present. Herein, we identified the recombinant protein of the Tb927. 5. 2080 gene. We have identified a new protein that is able to be used as a drug candidate to treat the parasite.
Sodium channel blockers are used to control electrical excitability in cells as a treatment for epileptic seizures and cardiac arrhythmia, and to provide short term control of pain. Developing the next generation of drugs that can selectively target one of the nine types of voltage-gated sodium channel expressed in the body requires a much better understanding of how current channels work. Here we use molecular dynamics simulations to elucidate the position at which sodium channels bind to the protein, as w
Myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 ( MyD88 ) -mediated signaling downstream of Toll-like receptors and the IL-1 receptor family is critically involved in the induction of protective host responses upon infections with C. rodentium. Although it is well established that CD11c+ cells and T cells are highly susceptible to a wide range of bacterial infections, the cell type-specific contribution of Myd88 in protecting the host against intestinal bacterial infection is only poorly understood. In thi
The Onchocerca volvulus-specific antigen Ov16 is one of the recommended tools for determining whether transmission is interrupted and mass treatment can stop. For different transmission settings, the relationship between post-MDA Ov 16 antibody prevalence in children ( measured 1 year after the last round of ivermectin mass drug administration ( MDA ) ) and the mf prevalence is explored through mathematical modelling. Seroconversion was assumed to be triggered by the first worm establishing in the host, wit
Prion populations exhibit features of Darwinian evolution in that they are subject to “mutations” that give rise to heterogeneity and allow selective amplification of prions in different environments. We have reported that during propagation mutation-like processes occur at the conformational level. For example, when swainsonine-sensitive 22L prion were propagated in PK1 cells in the presence of the drug, drug-resistant variants emerged. This was not too surprising that the prionic population which had beco
All biological evolution takes place in a space of possible genotypes and their phenotypes. The structure of this space defines the evolutionary potential and limitations of an evolving system. Metabolism is one of the most ancient and fundamental evolving systems, sustaining life by extracting energy from extracellular nutrients. In this study, we study metabolism’s potential for innovation by analyzing an exhaustive genotype-phenotype map for a set of 1015 metabolisms that encodes all possible subsets of 51 reacti. We find that metabolism is a unique system that is capable of innovation and innovation.
Triatoma dimidiata is one of the broadest distributed triatomine species complexes transmitting Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease. This vector complex is found in a variety of domestic, peri-urban and sylvatic habitats. In the wild, it has been found mainly in tropical, perennial, and deciduous forest, caves, grasslands and modified habitats, but also in fragmented landscapes. The present study analyzes the population genetics of three main haplogroups from human domestic habitats a
Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome ( HFRS ) is a rodent-borne infectious disease caused mainly by two hantaviruses in China: Hantaan virus and Seoul virus. Environmental factors can significantly affect the risk of contracting the infection, primarily through their effects on rodent population dynamics and human-rodent contact. Therefore, constructing reliable models with which to quantify the relationships among different environmental factors, rodent populations, and the occurrences of human disease is an important task.
Costello syndrome ( CS ) is a congenital disease characterized by postnatal growth retardation, short stature, tumor predisposition, developmental delay, and abnormalities of the heart ( cardiomyopathy ), skin and skeletal muscles. HRAS p. Gly12Val mutations have the highest transforming activity, are very frequent in cancers, but very rare in CS, where they are reported to cause a severe, early lethal phenotype. We identified an unusual germline mutation, c. 35_36GC>TG, in a 12-year-old boy with atte
N6-methyladenosine ( m6A ) RNA methylation is the most abundant modification on mRNAs and plays important roles in various biological processes. In the cerebellum, Mettl3 is catalyzed by a methyltransferase complex. However, the in vivo functions of METTL3 and m 6A modification in mammalian development remain unclear. Here, we show that specific inactivation of N6m3 in mouse nervous system causes severe developmental defects in the brain. We also found that the loss of this modificati
Transcription factors are proteins that regulate gene expression by binding to cis-regulatory sequences such as promoters and enhancers. In embryonic stem ( ES ) cells, binding of the transcription factors OCT4, SOX2 and NANOG is essential to maintain the pluripotent state both in mouse and human ES cells. We show that combinatorial binding is strongly associated with co-localization of transcriptional coactivator Mediator, H3K27ac and increased expression of nearby genes in early embryonic development. Our study shows that transcription factor coactivation of gene coactivatedator mediator and the nearby gene in the early development of mouse, human, and mouse ES cell.
A reciprocal translocation involving chromosomes 8 and 21 generates the AML1/ETO oncogenic transcription factor that initiates acute myeloid leukemia by recruiting co-repressor complexes to DNA. The fusion protein preferentially binds to regions that are occupied by its wild-type counterpart. However, transcriptional regulation determined by the fusion proteins probably relies on a more complex network, since it has been shown to interact with a number of other transcription factors, in particular E-protein
Leishmaniasis ( VL ), caused by Leishmania donovani in the Indian subcontinent, can be fatal if not treated at the appropriate time. Histone post-translational modifications ( PTMs ) impact nuclear processes either by generally altering chromatin structure to make it more permissive/repressive to incoming transcription/replication/repair machinery, or by serving as flags recognized by specific proteins that modulate the various DNA-related processes. Due to the wide range of cellular processes they regulate
Inferring on others' ( potentially time-varying ) intentions is a fundamental problem during many social transactions. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we applied computational modeling to behavioral data from an economic game in which 16 pairs of volunteers ( randomly assigned to “player” or ‘adviser’ roles ) interacted. The player performed a probabilistic reinforcement learning task, receiving information about a binary lottery from a visual pie chart, and receiving an additional recommendation.
Scrub typhus is a mite-borne infectious disease that is endemic in a triangular geographic region containing the Indian subcontinent, northern Australia and the Far East. In non-endemic area it is one of the most important febrile diseases affecting returning travelers. Clinical clues that lead to a diagnosis include maculopapular skin rash, regional lymphadenopathy, and eschar. The presence of characteristic esch varies according to the geographical region. If a disease flows into a densely populated urban
RNA interference ( RNAi ) –related pathways affect gene activity by sequence-specific recruitment of Ago proteins to mRNA target molecules. The sequence specificity of this process stems from small RNA ( sRNA ) co-factors bound by the Ago protein. Stability of sRNAs in some pathways is in part regulated by Hen1-mediated methylation of their 3′ ends. Here we describe the effects of the Caenorhabditis elegans HEN1 RNA–methyl-transferase homolog, HENN-1, on the two pathways in this nematode. Surprisingly, in t
Glycosylation is a post-translational modification that enriches protein complexity and function, and is associated with a wide range of diseases, including cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular, congenital, immunological and infectious disorders. Enzymes that are involved in glyco-phenotypes may therefore be promising targets for therapy. Variations in glycans significantly affect protein function; but, contrary to polypeptides, they are not directly encoded by genes and the complex processes that regulate thei
Centromeres are important features of the genome that connect chromosomes to spindles. The connection occurs through a large multifunctional kinetochore complex that binds DNA, binds microtubules, and regulates the timing of anaphase. Centromeere domains are marked by a histone H3 variant known as CENH3, which has received intensive scrutiny as an important epigenetic identifier of centromere domain. In species such as maize, the available data suggest that centromeeric DNA does not function to recruit prote
The placenta, situated at the maternal-fetal interface, is a key organ for fetal growth and development; it performs a variety of functions including controlling fetal access to nutrients, hormone production, and mitigation of adverse effects from the environment. In the USA, 1 in 3 children is afflicted with overweight or obesity. The increasing prevalence of CO is also associated with diseases later in life including T2D, hypertension, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, obstructive sleep apnea and dyslipid.
Post Kala-azar Dermal Leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) is a chronic but not life-threatening disease; patients generally do not demand treatment, deserve much more attention because it is highly relevant in the context of the elimination programme. There is no standard guideline for diagnosis and treatment. A species-specific PCR on slit skin smear demonstrated a sensitivity of 93. 8%, but it has not been applied for routine diagnostic purpose. The study was conducted to determine the actual disease burden in an animal.
Bacteria have evolved various inducible genetic programs to face many types of stress that challenge their growth and survival. Competence is one such program. It enables genetic transformation, a major horizontal gene transfer process. In liquid cultures of Streptococcus pneumoniae, competence development is synchronized within the whole cell population. This collective behavior is known to depend on an exported signaling peptide ( CSP ) whose action generates a positive feedback loop. However, it is uncl
Human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are small, double-stranded DNA viruses that infect the basal keratinocytes of differentiating epidermal or mucosal epithelium. Most HPV infections are asymptomatic or cause benign lesions. However, several HPV types are associated with essentially all cases of cervical cancer, as well as a significant number of anogenital and oropharyngeal cancers. HPV16 is the most common high-risk type and accounts for over 60% of all human cancers, and is responsible for approximately 5%.
Influenza A ( IAV ) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the developing world. In this study, we introduce a mathematical and statistical framework to measure the relative transmissibility ( “transmission fitness” ) of one strain of influenza compared to the other. The model is applied to data from experiments in which animals are co-infected with a mixture of two influenza strains. We observe the mixture in each animal over time and over multiple generations of transmission, and show that it accurately recreates the transmission fitness of both strains over the same time period.
Light is one of the most important environmental cues regulating multiple aspects of plant growth and development, and abscisic acid ( ABA ) is a plant hormone that plays important roles during many phases of plants' responses to various environmental stresses. How plants integrate the external light signal with the endogenous pathway for better adaptation and survival remains poorly understood. Here, we show that BBX21 ( also known as SALT TOLERANCE HOMOLOG 2 ), a B-box ( BB ) protein previously shown to p
The multisubunit Mediator complex emerged early in the evolution of eukaryotes, and the versatility of its functions and its role as an integrative platform for cell physiology could have contributed to the shaping of chromatin structure and regulation of cell wall integrity. Here we present the first study of the role of this complex in Candida albicans, the pathogenic fungus that causes filamentous growth and biofilm formation. We present evidence that the roles of Med31 and Srb9/Med13 are different betwe
Bacteria in biofilms have a much higher antibiotic tolerance than their planktonic counterparts. A major outstanding question is the degree to which the biofilm-specific cellular state and its constituent genetic determinants contribute to this hyper-tolerant phenotype. Here, we used genome-wide functional profiling of a complex, heterogeneous mutant population of Pseudomonas aeruginosa MPAO1 to systematically quantify the contribution of each locus to antibiotic resistance under these two states. We identi
Most biological systems are difficult to analyse due to a multitude of interacting components and the concomitant lack of information about the essential dynamics. Therefore, there is an increasing need for computational algorithms that efficiently search large model spaces to provide the best systematic description of experimentally observed dynamics and that help to identify their relevant factors and processes. We developed an algorithm that is able to perform model selection on complex systems and searc
The National Program for Chagas disease was implemented in Bolivia in 2006, and it greatly decreased the number of infections through vector control. We conducted a 12-month follow-up study and seven blood samples were taken during and after the treatment. Serology, conventional diagnostic PCR ( cPCR ) and quantitative Real-time PCR were performed. Plasma Th1
Neisseria meningitidis is the primary causative agent of bacterial disease in sub-Saharan Africa. The genome contains a relatively large amount of repetitive DNA and almost 2% is occupied by a diminutive transposon called the Correia element. Here we report a bioinformatic analysis defining eight subtypes of the element with four distinct types of ends. Transcriptional analysis, using PCR and a lacZ reporter system, revealed that two ends in particular encode strong promoters. We highlight examples of eleme, which is an element that encodes a strong promoter.
In filamentous fungi, development and secondary metabolism are intimately coordinated. Two proteins, VeA and LaeA, have been demonstrated to be centrally involved in orchestration of these fundamental processes for a handful of fungi such as Aspergillus spp., and the sordariomycetes, Acremonium chrysogenum and Fusariums, which produce a wealth of secondary metabolites, including the host selective toxin, T-toxin. Produced by race T, this toxin promotes high virulence to maize carrying Texas male sterile cyt
Voltage-gated Na+- selective and K+ selective ion channels provide the molecular pathways for most ion current flow across cell membranes during electrical activity in biological systems. Ion currents through these channels have been measured using electrophysiological techniques for many years, and the elucidation of molecular structures has provided structural and mechanistic foundations for understanding these currents. Molecular dynamics simulations of ion permeation through bacterial Nav channels, howe
Rabies is an almost uniformly fatal infectious disease of the central nervous system ( CNS ), caused by a neurotropic RNA virus in the family Rhabdoviridae, genus Lyssavirus. The worldwide number of rabies deaths was estimated to be 70, 000 in 2011. Furious and paralytic clinical forms of Rabies occur in both humans and dogs in a ratio of approximately 2:1. While limbic symptoms dominate the clinical picture in furious form, paralysis of lower motor neuron type is the major clinical feature. Differences in motor neurone type are the most common feature of this disease.
Insulator elements are DNA sequences that regulate interactions between promoters and enhancers. By preventing inappropriate enhancer/promoter communication, insulators are believed to play a key role in the genomic organisation of transcriptional regulation. Their mode of action is still unclear but may involve the formation of chromatin loops that partition the genome into separate regulatory domains. In Drosophila, the zinc-finger protein CTCF is well studied in vertebrates as a transcription factor, but it is not known whether insulator sequences are involved in this process.
For the last several decades, molecular recognition has been considered one of the most fundamental processes in biochemistry. For enzymes, substrate binding is often coupled to conformational changes that alter the local environment of their active site to align the reactive groups for efficient catalysis and to reach the transition state. Adaptive substrate recognition is a well-known concept; however, it has not been characterized at a structural level because of its dynamic nature. Here, we provide a detailed description of this process at the molecular level.
The thalamus is the primary sensory gateway that relays sensory information to the cerebral cortex. While a single recipient cortical cell receives the convergence of many principal relay cells of the brain, each thalamocortical cell in turn integrates a dense and distributed synaptic feedback from the cortex, the influence of this functional loop remains largely ignored. Using dynamic-clamp techniques, we combined theoretical and experimental approaches to implement a realistic hybrid retino-thalamo-cortex, which is able to integrate a large number of cortical cells in the same recipient cell. We combined experimental and theoretical approaches and developed a theoretical-and-intrinsic approach for the implementation of such a system.
Methylation of nucleic acid bases increases the repertoire of information carried in a DNA or RNA sequence. DNA methylation has been proposed to regulate self-versus-nonself recognition, distinguishing DNA damaged strands in need of repair, genomic imprinting, X-chromosome inactivation, transposon suppression, and transcription. The extent and diversity of recognized DNA and RNA methylations has expanded in recent years with the development of new and more sensitive detection technologies. Here, we report g
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a ubiquitous pathogen that can cause disability in newborns and serious clinical diseases in immunocompromised patients. The virus has a large genome with enormous coding potential; its viral particles are equipped with complicated glycoprotein complexes and can infect a wide range of human cells. Despite close to five decades of effort, no vaccine has been licensed. Adverse effects and concerns of viral resistance limit the clinical use of antiviral drugs such as ganciclov, a widely used anti-viral drug, which has the potential to be used as a vaccine.
Cell differentiation is believed to be an all-or-none “switch-like” event rather than a gradual transition of a precursor cell to a stable, mature cell. The exact molecular events that direct lineage commitment at stem cell stage or at the multipotent progenitor level remain elusive, but it is well appreciated that lineage-specific transcription factors and cytokine receptors play critical roles in the process of hematopoiesis. Here, we present a minimal model that integrates the instructive and stochastic aspects of stem-cell differentiation with the simple and simple model of cell differentiation.
Bunyamwera virus ( BUNV ), a mosquito-borne pathogen first isolated in Uganda in 1943, is the prototypic representative of the OrthobunYavirus genus. Despite its medical importance, little is known about the orthobUNYAVIRUS structure. Here, using electron cryo-tomography, we report the ultrastructure of BunyAMWERA virus, the prototype member of this genus, which exhibits a locally ordered lattice of glycoprotein spikes. Each spike protrudes 18 nm from the viral membrane and becomes disordered upon introduct. This structure is ordered by the length of each spike, and the structure of these spikes is highly ordered.
Anterior chamber depth ( ACD ) is a key anatomical risk factor for primary angle closure glaucoma ( PACG ). We conducted a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) to discover novel genes for ACG on a total of 5, 308 population-based individuals of Asian descent from Singapore, and Chinese from Beijing, China. Our study highlights the fact that even larger sample sizes may be necessary to dissect and dissect the genetic mechanisms underlying this major global cause of blindness.
The bilaterian tree unites two major clades, deuterostomes ( e. g. humans ) and protostome. These two groups share a common developmental toolkit consisting of conserved transcription factors and signaling pathways. However, the precise expression of each circuit component depends on cis-regulatory elements ( CNEs ). Here we describe the first examples of such enhancers, which we call regulatory elements. Bicores show conservation of sequence and gene synteny, and we predict that they act as response elemen. In this study, we show that regulatory element-encoded enhancer ( CCNE ) is a well-studied tool for the development of developmental tools.
While influenza virus diversity and antigenic drift have been well characterized on a global scale, the factors that influence the virus’ rapid evolution within and between human hosts are less clear. Given the modest effectiveness of seasonal vaccination, vaccine-induced antibody responses could serve as a potent selective pressure for novel influenza variants at the individual or community level. We used next generation sequencing of patient-derived viruses from a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of v
Visceral leishmaniasis caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani causes severe disease. Age appears to be critical in determining the clinical outcome of VL and at present there is no effective vaccine available for any age group. Previously, we showed that genetically modified live attenuated L. donova parasites ( LdCen-/- ) induced a strong protective innate and adaptive immune response in young and aged mice. In this study we evaluated the immunogenicity profile in bone marrow derived dendriti, a mouse model of the parasite that causes the disease in which the immune system is highly protective. We found that the protective immune responses were enhanced in aged and young mice and that this was due to the presence of an adaptive innate response.
Enteroviruses ( EVs ) represent one of the leading causes of human disease worldwide and are associated with a broad spectrum of clinically distinct syndromes. While most infections are benign or asymptomatic, a small proportion may lead to life-threatening disease. Apart from the successful vaccines against poliovirus, there are currently no efficient antiviral treatments or prophylaxes against these common and potentially fatal pathogens. Classified in the Picornaviridae family, the Enterovirus genus is c
The Herpes Simplex Virus 1 ( HSV-1 ) glycoprotein gE-gI is a transmembrane Fc receptor found on the surface of both virions and infected cells that binds human immunoglobulin G ( hIgG ). GE can also participate in antibody bipolar bridging ( ABB ), a process by which the antigen-binding fragments ( Fabs ) of the IgG bind to a viral antigen while the cell surface antigen binds to gI. Here, we developed an in vitro model system to study the internalization and trafficking of antibody-B complexes with transfer.
Cystic hydatid disease ( CHD ) is a serious parasitic zoonosis that is caused by the larval stages of Echinococcus granulosus, a cestode that poses a threat to public health as well as significant economic losses. At present, more than 3 million people are infected with this parasite. The disease is difficult to control because appropriate diagnostic procedures are lacking and the available drugs are inefficient. In this study, we used Roche 454 sequencing technology and in silico secretome analysis to expl
Nitrate is an important soil nitrogen source for fungi in natural environments. Nitrate assimilation is tightly regulated in microorganisms and plants. In Aspergillus nidulans, during the transcriptional activation process of nitrate assimilatory genes, the interaction between the pathway-specific transcription factor NirA and the exportin KapK/CRM1 is disrupted, and this leads to rapid nuclear accumulation of the protein. We found that the oxidation status of a conserved methionine within the nuclear expor was disrupted by the degradation of this protein, which resulted in rapid and rapid accumulation in the plant.
There are nine different genes encoding voltage-gated sodium channels, many of which are more than ≈90% identical by sequence. This sequence similarity presumably corresponds to similarity of their functional properties; this is consistent with the idea that these properties must be tightly constrained for an action potential to propagate and propagate. Here we show that the simplest theoretical constraints bound by sodium channel diversity—the requirements of membrane excitability and the uniqueness of the resting poten—are the most than 90% similar by the sequence of these genes.
It is generally recognised that novel antiviral drugs, less prone to resistance, would be a desirable alternative to current drug options in order to be able to treat potentially serious influenza infections. The viral polymerase, which performs transcription and replication of the RNA genome, is an attractive target for anti-influenza drug development since its inhibition would directly stall viral replication at an early stage. Recent structural studies on functional domains of H1N1 and human H3N2 have op
Snake envenomation has been estimated to affect 1. 8 million people annually with about 94, 000 deaths mostly in poor tropical countries. Specific antivenoms are the only rational and effective treatment for these cases. Efforts are being made to produce effective, affordable and sufficient antivirals. The immunization process is one step that needs to be rigorously studied and improved especially with regard to the production of polyspecific antisera. In this stu
Host-adapted strains of Salmonella enterica cause systemic infections and have the ability to persist systemically for long periods of time despite the presence of a robust immune response. Chronically infected hosts are asymptomatic and transmit disease to naïve hosts via fecal shedding of bacteria, thereby serving as a critical reservoir for disease. We show that the bacterial effector protein SseI ( also called SrfH ), which is translocated into host cells by the pathogenicity Island 2 ( SPI2 ) type III ( I1 ) of the bacterium, serves as an important reservoir of disease in the host.
Community acquired-methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( CA-MRSA ) is a socially problematic pathogen that infects healthy individuals, causing severe disease in many people in the United States and in European countries. The underlying mechanism for the high virulence is not known. In this study, we screened and identified a target molecule of the psm-Mec gene, which encodes agrBDCA, an extracellular quorum-sensing molecule that activates the transcription factor AgrA by phosphorylation. We also identified the gene as the target of a gene-encoded protein that is involved in transcriptional regulation.
Dengue is the most serious and widespread arthropod borne viral disease worldwide with an estimated 390 million people infected mainly in the tropical and subtropical regions, and 3 billion people at risk of infection in over 100 countries. The disease presents itself in a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations, ranging from mild acute febrile illness to self-limiting classical disease to the severe haemorrhagic fever ( DHF/DSS ), the latter resulting in fluid loss which may progress to life-threatening h
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a zoonosis caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania infantum ( syn. L. chagasi ) transmitted to humans by female sandflies of the genus Lutzomyia. The disease is not exactly known in the Americas, since there are a lack of effective surveillance systems. Although the Brazilian surveillance system is considered better than in other Latin American countries, it is also underreported in this country. This study aimed to obtain more accurate data about the factors studied as 
Inhalation of Francisella tularensis ( Ft ) causes acute and fatal pneumonia. The lung cytokine milieu favors exponential Ft replication, but the mechanisms underlying acute pathogenesis and death remain unknown. Evaluation of the sequential and systemic host immune response in pulmonary tularemia reveals that in contrast to overwhelming bacterial burden or cytokines, an overt innate cellular response to Ft drives tissue pathology and host mortality. Lethal infection with Ft elicits medullaary and extra-medicine responses, and the lung inflammation and intercellular immune responses favor exponential replication of Ft replicating.
Invasive species represent a global concern for their rapid spread and the possibility of infectious disease transmission. This is the case of the global invader Aedes albopictus, the Asian tiger mosquito, which is a vector of medically important arboviruses, notably chikungunya ( CHIKV ), dengue, DENV and Zika. The reconstruction of a complex colonization pattern of this mosquito has great potential for mitigating its spread, and, consequently, disease risks. Classical population genetics analyses and Appr
While knowledge of acute infection pathogenesis has advanced, understanding of chronic infections has lagged. Here we sought to identify the genes and functions that mediate fitness of the pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa in chronic wound infections, and to better understand the selective environment in wounds. We found that clinical isolates from chronic human wounds were frequently defective in virulence functions and biofilm formation. In contrast, genes involved in anaerobic growth, some metabolic and en
Chronic hydrocele is the most common manifestation of bancroftian filariasis, an endemic disease in 80 countries. In a prospective study, we evaluated the occurrence of intrascrotal lymphangiectasia, gross appearance/consistency of the testis, and the efficacy of complete excision of hydrocelectomy at the Center for Teaching, Research and Tertiary Referral ( NEPAF ). A total of 968 patients with uni- or bilateral filarial hydrocephalus ( Group-1 ) and a Comparison Group ( CG ) of 218 patients from the same 
Trichinella spiralis is a zoonotic parasitic nematode that infects mammals indiscriminately. Human infection is found on all continents except Antarctica, contributing globally to helminth related morbidity and disability adjusted life years. In order to establish chronic infection, parasites invade fully differentiated skeletal myofibres, a structure in which the worm may reside for decades. The disruption of host cell signalling during this process is most likely mediated by proteins secreted from the par
Chagas disease, also known as American trypanosomiasis, is a significant public health problem in Latin America. Current therapy is limited to benznidazole or nifurtimox, both of which are associated with side effect profiles that may impair the therapy and are only effective in the acute phase of the disease. The cysteine protease cruzipain is considered to be a validated target for therapeutic intervention in this treatment. In this study, we evaluated the activity of three nitrile-based inhibitors based on a combination of two drugs that are known to inhibit the drug and to cause side effects. We found that three of these drugs are effective, but the other two are not effective.
Maize ( Zea mays L. ) is one of the most important cereal crops and a model for the study of genetics, evolution, and domestication. To better understand maize genome organization and to build a framework for genome sequencing, we constructed a sequence-ready fingerprinted contig-based physical map that covers 93. 5% of all the genome, of which 86. 1% is aligned to the genetic map. We found that the distribution pattern of expressed sequence tags correlates to that of recombination. In collinear regions, 1 
Prions are the proteinaceous infectious agents responsible for Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies ( TSEs ), a group of fatal neurodegenerative disorders, including Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease ( CJD ) in humans, scrapie in cattle and chronic wasting disease in deer. The most common form of human prion disease is sporadic, which appears to have its origin in a low frequency event of spontaneous misfolding to generate the first PrPSc particle that then propagates as in the infectious form. In this study w
We present a novel neurally based model for estimating angular velocity ( AV ) in the bee brain, capable of quantitatively reproducing experimental observations of visual odometry and corridor-centering in free-flying honeybees, including previously unaccounted for manipulations of behaviour. The model is fitted using electrophysiological data, and tested using behavioural data. Based on our model we suggest that the AV response can be considered as an evolutionary extension to the optomotor response.
Trypanosoma brucei gambiense, the main agent of sleeping sickness, has always been considered as invariably fatal. While scarce and old reports have mentioned cases of self-cure in untreated patients, these studies suffered from the lack of accurate diagnostic tools available at that time. We report here on the data obtained throughout this long-term follow-up ( 15 years ) of a cohort of 50 human African trypanomiasis ( HAT ) patients in the Ivory Coast among whom 11 refused treatment after their initial di
A key tumor suppressor, p53, is mutated in about half of human tumors and ionizing radiation in particular is an archetypal mutagenic carcinogen. However, the causal link between induction of mutations in oncogenic loci and carcinogenesis is mostly inferential. On the other hand, irradiation induces a multitude of other changes both in the cells and their microenvironment which could potentially affect the selective effects of some mutations. P53 is a key mutation that can provide resistance to multiple gen
Helminth parasites are associated with protection from inflammatory conditions in both humans and animal models. Parasitic helminths of genus Schistosoma develop the capability to live for decades in the blood vessels of human host. These parasite stages ( larval and adult ), besides surviving inside the host, acquire the ability to modulate human immune responses, what has always called the attention of many scientists worldwide. The control of inflammation seems not to be strictly dependent on parasite in
Eukaryotic transmembrane helical ( TMH ) proteins perform a wide diversity of critical cellular functions, but remain structurally largely uncharacterized and their high-resolution structure prediction is currently hindered by the lack of close structural homologues. To address this problem, we have developed a novel and generic method for accurately modeling large membrane protein structures from distant proteins. The method improves starting templates and achieves near-atomic accuracy prediction of membra, a protein that performs a variety of cell functions that are poorly characterized and poorly understood. This method is also able to accurately predict the structure of a large protein structure from a distant protein.
Listeria monocytogenes causes listeriosis, a foodborne disease that poses serious risks to fetuses, newborns and immunocompromised adults. This intracellular bacterial pathogen proliferates in the cytosol and exploits the host actin polymerization machinery to spread from cell-to-cell and disseminate. Here, we report that during several days of infection in human hepatocytes or trophoblast cells, bacteria gradually stopped producing ActA and became trapped in lysosome-like vacuoles termed “viable but non-cu”. We report in this study that in several weeks of acute and chronic infection of hepatocyte or spleen-derived cells in liver cells or cells of the human host, the bacteria slowly stopped production of Acta and become trapped inside lyosomes-shaped vacucoles.
Auditory scene analysis involves segregating a complex scene into individual objects or streams. A common stimulus used to study streaming in psychoacoustic experiments involves alternating tone sequences organized in repeating ABA- triplets. The sequence can be perceived integrated in to one, or segregated into two streams A-A-B- and -B---B--. During minutes-long presentations, subjects may report irregular alternations between these interpretations. We combine neuromechanistic modeling and neurophysiology, and use neuromchanism modeling to analyze the temporal and spatial structure of a scene in the brain. In the present study, we show that the frequency with which subjects perceive the sequence is irregularly alternated between different interpretations of the sequences.
Parasite-specific IgE is thought to correlate with protection against Schistosoma mansoni infection or re-infection, although this widespread view has been recently challenged. Here, we demonstrate proof-of-principle of how the RS-ATL8 cell line, in combination with a cell-free in vitro translation system and a set of stringent quality controls, can be used for assessment of potential allergenicity of anti-helminthic vaccine candidates. This technology paves the way for high-throughput, genome-wide analysis, and we have demonstrated proof of principle of the use of this technology for the first time in the development of an in-vitro-based in vivo translation and quality control system.
Sexual reproduction allows transposable elements ( TEs ) to proliferate, leading to rapid divergence between populations and species. A significant outcome of divergence in the TE landscape is evident in hybrid dysgenic syndromes, a strong form of genomic incompatibility that can arise when TE family abundance differs between two parents. When TE fragments inherited from the father are not matched with a pool of corresponding TE silencing PIWI-interacting RNAs ( piRNAs ) provisioned by the female germline. This is a significant result of TE inheritance differences between the mother and daughter.
Fragile X Tremor Ataxia Syndrome ( FXTAS ) is a common inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by expansion of a CGG trinucleotide repeat in the 5′UTR of the fragile X syndrome gene, FMR1. This expanded repeat is thought to induce toxicity as RNA, and in FX TAS patients mRNA levels are markedly increased. Here we show that overexpressing any of three histone deacetylases ( HDACs 3, 6, or 11 ) suppresses the increased expression of histones in pre-mutation carriers compared to control or FXS derived cell. We show overexpression of any one of these de-acetyleases, HDAs 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23,, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 40, 43, 45, 46, 50, 53, 52, 54, 59, 60, 61, 67, 58, 63, 66, 65, 68, 69, 70, 71, 62, 73, etc.
Chronic viral infections such as human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) and hepatitis C virus affect an estimated 185 million people worldwide. In the course of these infections HIV and HCV are able to evade the immune response and establish viral persistence. Genetic factors that influence the host T cell response have been shown to greatly impact viral load and disease progression. However, it is currently unclear to what extent host genetics influences the establishment of chronic viral infection. Here we present a study on the role of host genetic factors in the development of viral disease.
Anthrax is a global re-emerging zoonotic disease and is an endemic disease in China, especially in rural regions. In this study, the general characteristics of human anthrax outbreaks that occurred in areas of northwestern China over the past decade have been described by means of canonical single-nucleotide polymorphism ( canSNP ) analysis and multilocus variable-number tandem repeat analysis ( MLVA ) with 15 markers. Five sublineages/subgroups, namely, A. Br. 001/002, B.Br. Vollum, D. C. Aust94, and A. Br. 002/001 ( B.Br. Vollsum, D. C. Aust95 ), are known to be involved in the development of the disease.
Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli and related food and waterborne pathogens pose significant threats to human health. These attaching/effacing microbes infect the apical surface of intestinal epithelial cells ( IEC ), causing severe diarrheal disease. Colonizing the intestinal luminal surface helps segregate these microbes from most host inflammatory responses, although exactly how this response benefits the infected host remains controversial. Based on studies using Citrobacter rodentium, a related mouse 
The murine noroviruses ( MNV ) of the GV genogroup cause gastroenteritis in humans and are the greatest threat to human health. They are obligate intracellular parasites that infect a variety of animals and do this by partially circumventing the host mechanisms of translation initiation. Norovirus RNA, which has neither a 5´ m7G cap nor an internal ribosome entry site ( IRES ), adopts an unusual mechanism to initiate protein synthesis that relies on interactions between t
Genes encoding proteins in a common pathway are often found near each other along bacterial chromosomes. Several explanations have been proposed to account for the evolution of these structures. For instance, natural selection may directly favour gene clusters through a variety of mechanisms, such as increased efficiency of coregulation. An alternative and controversial hypothesis is the selfish operon model, which asserts that clustered arrangements of genes are more easily transferred to other species, th
Malaria, caused by the parasite Plasmodium falciparum, is responsible for substantial morbidity, mortality and economic losses in tropical regions of the world. Pregnant women are exceptionally vulnerable to severe consequences of this infection, due to the specific adhesion of parasite-infected erythrocytes in the placenta. A unique variant of PfEMP1, a parasite encoded hyper-variable antigen placed on the surface of infected cells, binds to chondroitin sulfate A ( CSA ) on syncytiotrophoblasts in this or
Infection with dengue viruses ( DENV ) can lead to a spectrum of disease outcomes. The pathophysiology of severe versus non-severe manifestations of infection may be driven by host responses, which could be reflected in the transcriptional profiles of peripheral blood immune cells. In this study, we conducted genome-wide microarray analysis of whole blood RNA from 34 patients from Nicaragua collected on days 3–6 of illness, with different disease manifestations. Gene expression analysis identified genes that play a role in host response to infection. We found that the host immune system is activated by the virus.
Herpesviruses are ubiquitous pathogens that cause much disease. The difficulty of clearing their established infections makes host entry an important target for disease control. Here we used Murid Herpesvirus 4 ( MuHV-4 ) as a tractable model with which to establish the in vivo relationship between host HS expression, virion binding, and infection. We found that the olfactory neuroepithelium is a critical site of heparan sulfate ( HS )-dependent HS uptake. Incoming virions tracked down the neuronal cilia an, which are critical sites for HS--mediated uptake, in the brain and spinal cord of the host. Infection was detected by a murid herpes virus 4 that was able to track down and infect the neurons in which it was found to be expressed. This study is the first to identify the molecular mechanism by which a host pathogen interacts with its host host to gain entry into the nervous system.
Invasion of epithelial cells by Salmonella enterica requires expression of genes located in the pathogenicity island I ( SPI-1 ). This regulatory circuit responds to a wide range of physiological and environmental stimuli that are sensed by a variety of cellular factors, including both global and specific regulators ( as reviewed by Fabrega and Vila [2] ), and is activated only under specific conditions. Here, we describe a new regulatory pathway involving CRP-cAMP, a widely established metabolic regulator, in a novel way. We describe the activation of this pathway in response to specific physiological, environmental and physiological stimuli.
The expansion of trinucleotide repeats ( TNRs ) is the causative mutation of more than fifteen neurodegenerative, neurological and neuromuscular genetic diseases, including Huntington's disease ( HD ) and myotonic dystrophy 1 ( FRDA ). CAG/CTG expansions are unstable in selective somatic tissues, which accelerates disease progression. The mechanisms underlying repeat instability are complex, and it remains unclear whether chromatin structure and/or transcription contribute to tissue-selective instability in TRINNUTRUTS.
Enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) is one of the most virulent enteroviruses, but the specific molecular features that enhance its ability to disseminate in humans remain unknown. Comparison of five full-length genomes sequenced directly from respiratory, gastrointestinal, nervous system, and blood specimens revealed three nucleotide changes that occurred within a five-day period: a non-conservative amino acid change in VP1 located within the BC loop ( L97R ), a region considered as an immunogenic site and possibly as a potential site for the presence of a virus in the human immune system.
Natural transformation, or competence, is an ability inherent to bacteria for the uptake of extracellular DNA. This process allows bacteria to acquire new genes that increase genetic diversity and fitness, such as the gain of antibiotic resistance in pathogenic microorganisms. For the Gram-positive bacteria genus Streptococcus, genes required for competence are under the regulation of quorum sensing ( QS ) mediated by peptide pheromones. One such system, ComRS, consists of a protein that is processed ( XIP  ) by the bacterium, which is able to detect the presence of an antimicrobial drug in the host.
Centromeres are essential components of eukaryotic chromosomes required for proper chromosome segregation to daughter cells. Lack of a functional centromere renders chromosomes unstable and prone to mis-segregation and breakage. This genome instability is associated with carcinogenesis and can also result in cell death. In this study, we used the pathogenic yeast Candida albicans as a model organism to study the DNA replicat
Back pain is the #1 cause of years lived with disability worldwide, yet surprisingly little is known regarding the biology underlying this symptom. We conducted a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) meta-analysis of chronic back pain ( CBP ) in adults of European ancestry from 16 cohorts in the Cohorts for Heart and Aging Research in Genomic Epidemiology ( CHARGE ) consortium, and from the UK Biobank interim data release ( UKB1 ). The aim was to identify novel associations between specific genetic marker ( i. e., “Genetic markers” ) and specific disease-causing genetic markers.
Taenia solium cysticercosis is a neglected zoonotic disease of man and pigs in many developing countries. It is recognised as an important cause of epilepsy in regions where the parasite occurs. However, it is largely underreported and there are a lack of data about the disease burden. To this end, the present study was undertaken to calculate the impact of this neglected disease in Cameroon. Both the cost and Disability Adjusted Life Year ( DALY ) estimations were applied. All necessary parameters were col
Staphylococcus aureus is an opportunistic pathogen that has evolved complex regulatory circuits allowing rapid adaption of cell growth in response to its diverse hosts and ecological niches. The first regulatory RNA discovered in 1993 is RNAIII, the main intracellular effector of the quorum sensing agr system. Several non-coding RNAs carry a C-rich sequence suggesting that they regulate mRNAs at the post-transcriptional level. We have previously shown that the Sigma B-dependent RsaA RNA represses the synthe. Our previous work has previously showed that a Sigma-B-independent S-RNA RNA is repressed by the transcriptional transcriptome.
A key step in HIV-1 entry—referred to as uncoating—is generally defined as ( full or partial ) shedding of CA from the viral core. A key early step of this incompletely understood process, referred to, is the assembly of the cone-shaped capsid in target cells, which is a prerequisite for establishing a life-long infection. This step is critical yet poorly understood. Here, we report a novel strategy to visualize single virus unceating using a fluorescently tagged oligomeric form of a viral protein, cyclophi. We report that we have developed a new strategy that enables the visualization of single viruses uncoupled from their core, and that this strategy can be used to identify the first steps in this process.
Oligonucleotide frequencies can be linked to a number of properties, including codon usage, DNA base-stacking energy ( dinucleotides ) and DNA structural conformation. We wanted to assess the statistical information potential of different DNA ‘word-sizes’ and explore how these frequencies differ in coding and non-coding regions. Among the results found was that prokaryotic chromosomes are predominantly short range correlated, i. e., information is encoded in short oligons. This variation was mainly located in the short-range correlated regions of the genome. In the absence of these regions we found that the information encoded by information was predominantly in oligon nucleotide frequency.
Meiotic recombination ensures the correct segregation of homologous chromosomes during gamete formation and contributes to DNA diversity through both large-scale reciprocal crossovers and very localised gene conversion events. Considerable progress has been made in understanding factors such as PRDM9 and SNP variants that influence human hotspots but very little is known about factors acting downstream. To address this, we simultaneously analysed both types of recombinant molecule in sperm DNA at six highly conserved sites in the genome of the human gametes. We simultaneously compared the two types and the type of single-stranded DNA molecule present in both sperm and egg sperm.
Environmental chemicals and drugs may have a negative effect on human health. A better understanding of the molecular mechanism of such compounds is needed to determine the risk. We present a high confidence human protein-protein association network built upon the integration of chemical toxicology and systems biology. This computational systems chemical biology model reveals uncharacterized connections between compounds and diseases. Additionally, the network can be used to identify unexpected potential as
Cortical sensory neurons are commonly characterized using the receptive field, the linear dependence of their response on the stimulus. However, receptive fields do not capture the fact that the response of a cortical neuron results from the complex nonlinear network in which it is embedded. Here we take advantage of recent advances in the training of artificial neural networks to produce a new type of RF model that can be rapidly fitted to neural responses to natural sounds. By fitting a feedforward networ, we are able to rapidly fit a neural response to the natural sound of the human ear.
The mammalian circadian system orchestrates a wide variety of metabolic, physiological, and behavioral rhythms through intracellular clockworks present in the neurons of the suprachiasmatic nuclei ( SCN ) and in virtually all other cells and tissues. At the heart of circadian time keeping is a molecular core oscillator consisting of a set of transcription factors ( clock proteins ) that operate in transcriptional–translational feedback loops and drive rhythmic expression of approximately 10% of mammalian t
Bile is a fluid containing bile salts, cholesterol, and a variety of proteins and electrolytes. In mammals with a gall bladder, a fraction is stored in the liver while another fraction flows directly into the small intestine. This trait has been exploited for the design of selective microbiological media such as the one-century-old MacConkey agar, which is widely used to identify genera of the family Enterobacteriaceae. Here we describe the mechanisms employed by the bacterium Salmonella enterica to survive in its natural environment.
The E. coli chromosome is compacted by segregation into 400–500 supercoiled domains by both active and passive mechanisms, for example, transcription and DNA-protein association. We find that prophage Mu is organized as a stable domain bounded by the proximal location of Mu termini L and R, which are 37 kbp apart on the Mu genome. Formation/maintenance of this Mu ‘domain’ configuration, reported by Cre-loxP recombination and 3C ( chromosome conformation capture ), is dependent on a strong gyrase site ( SGS  ).
Primaquine ( PQ ) is the only currently licensed antimalarial that prevents Plasmodium vivax ( Pv ) relapses. It also clears mature P. falciparum ( Pf ) gametocytes, thereby reducing post-treatment transmission. Randomized treatment in a treatment-to-reinfection cohort in Papua New Guinean children permitted the study of Pv and Pf gameteocyte carriage after radical cure and to investigate the contribution of Pf relapsed. Children received treatment with Chloroquine, Artemether-Lumefantrine or placebo and received a placebo-controlled treatment to treat the disease.
GTPases control actin organization during diverse cellular responses ( migration, cytokinesis and endocytosis ). Although the primary members of this family ( RhoA, Rac and Cdc42 ) have different downstream effects, the basic mechanism involves targeting to the plasma membrane and activation by GTP binding. We developed a computational framework to analyze experimental data for these systems. This analysis can reveal details of GDI-mediated cycling and help distinguish between the different mechanisms that are involved in the regulation of the cellular response.
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by parasitic worms which may infect the intestines or urinary tract. The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has set goals of morbidity control and elimination as a public health problem, i. e. reaching ≤5% and ≤1% prevalence of heavy-intensity infections in school-aged children ( SAC; 5–14 years of age ) respectively, respectively. Prevalence and intensity of infection data are typically collected from children as they are relatively easy to sample and are thought to be subject to the same characteristics as those of other diseases such as malaria, typhoid, and chikungunya.
Epilepsy is a spectrum of disorders characterised by recurrent seizures originating in the brain. When drug therapies fail, surgery is an alternative treatment option for many patients. In this study we apply a computational model of epilepsy to patient specific structural connectivity derived from diffusion tensor imaging ( DTI ) of 22 individuals with left TLE and 39 healthy controls. We validate the model by examining patient-control differences in simulated seizure onset time and network location. Our a
Human herpesvirus 8 ( HHV-8 ) is associated with Kaposi's sarcoma in addition to the B cell malignancies primary effusion lymphoma ( PEL ) and multicentric Castleman's disease. Several genes, including vIRF-1, have been noted to have oncogenic capacity in culture and in in vivo models. However, most of these genes are expressed during productive, lytic replication, suggesting that they do not play direct roles in malignant pathogenesis, but rather serve to enhance virus production. Here we identify a novel mechanism by which the virus can enhance its ability to replicate and replicate in vitro.
The healthy lung maintains a steady state of immune readiness to rapidly respond to injury from invaders. Integrins are important for setting the parameters of this resting state, particularly the epithelial-restricted αVβ6 integrin, which is upregulated during injury. We show that the upregulation of β6 during influenza infection is involved in disease pathogenesis. Our studies have important implications as the loss of one epithel protein, α Vβ5, can alter the lung microenvironment during both homeostasis and infection.
Leishmania ( Viannia ) braziliensis is the species most frequently implicated with cutaneous and mucosal leishmaniasis in the Americas; its diagnosis is based on the identification of amastigotes in lesions, which is limited by low parasite burden. In this study, we performed a descriptive and comparative analysis of the characteristics of this type of diagnostic tool in an endemic area in a set of clinical and demographic variables. Diagnostic confirmation was reached in 474 ( 65% ) cases through positive test results. We found that the diagnostic confirmation of infection with the parasite-causing parasite in lesion lesions was achieved in more than half of all cases.
Coronary artery disease ( CAD ) is the leading cause of death worldwide. Most cases are caused by atherosclerosis, a form of chronic inflammation in arterial walls that involves the accumulation of lipid-containing plaques. Blood levels of low-density lipoproteins ( LDL ) are a major environmentally-influenced risk factor for CAD and one of the more successful preventative treatments, statin therapy, lowers LDL levels. However, for most CAD loci the mechanism by which CAD-associated variants affect the dise
As highly trachoma-endemic countries approach elimination, some districts will have prevalences of inflammation–follicular in 1–9-year-olds ( TF1-9 ). The World Health Organization ( WHO ) previously recommended that in such districts, TF prevalence be assessed in each sub-district ( groupings of at least three villages ) with three rounds of azithromycin treatment offered to any district in which TF≥10% is present. Given the large number of endemic districts worldwide and the human and financial resources required t
Nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich repeat ( NLR ) protein complexes sense infections and trigger robust immune responses in plants and humans. Activation of plant NLRs resistance ( R ) proteins by pathogen effectors launches convergent responses, including programmed cell death ( PCD ), reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production and transcriptional reprogramming with elusive mechanisms. Functional genomic and biochemical genetic screens identified six closely related Arabidopsis Ca2+-dependent protein kinase complexes, which sense infection, trigger strong immune response in plant and human, and activate robust anti-microbial responses. In this study, we have identified a novel mechanism for the activation of the plant immune system.
Much of the developing world, particularly sub-Saharan Africa, exhibits high levels of morbidity and mortality associated with infectious diseases. The incidence of Schistosoma sp. —which are neglected tropical diseases exposing and infecting more than 500 and 200 million individuals in 77 countries, respectively—is rising because of 1 ) numerous irrigation and hydro-electric projects, 2 ) steady shifts from nomadic to sedentary existence, and 3 ) ineffective control programs unable to cope with population 
Herpesviruses are particularly well suited for multifaceted interactions with the cell cycle machinery, owing to the large coding capacity of their genomes. Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) encodes a second RXL-type cyclin A-binding protein, pp150 ( also referred to as pUL32 ) that is neither an activator nor an inhibitor of the cells division cycle but is itself subject of a CDK-dependent regulation. Here we address the physiological relevance of this r
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease that results in progressive degeneration of motor neurons, ultimately leading to paralysis and death. Approximately 10% of ALS cases are familial, with the remaining 90% being sporadic. Genetic studies have been extremely informative in determining the causative mutations behind ALS, especially as the same mutations identified in familial ALS can also cause sporadic disease. However, the cause is unknown. Sporadic cases represe
Infection with influenza virus is associated with significant mortality particularly amongst children and the elderly. The emergence of new strains of avian virus H5N1 poses an increasing pandemic threat underlining the need for further studies into generation of anti-viral immunity. A consideration of how cytokines modulate cellular immune responses will facilitate a better understanding of the interplay between such pathogens and immune system and provide rationale for enhancing vaccine effica
Cytosine-5 methyltransferases ( m5C-MTases ) of the Dnmt2 family are conserved in all species from Schizosaccharomyces pombe to humans. In this report, we address the subject of protein interaction by identifying enolase through a yeast two-hybrid screen. We discovered that this enzyme, which is known to catalyze the conversion of 2-phosphoglycerate to phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ), was shown to have both a cytoplasmatic and a nuclear localization in the parasite Entamoeba histolytica. This unexpected inhibit was found to be an unexpected effect on the pathogenesis of this parasite.
Mosquitoes are a significant public health concern due to their ability to transmit a variety of emerging and reemerging arboviruses. Mosquito saliva is a complex concoction of many secretory factors that modulate the feeding foci to enhance pathogen infection and establishment. MicroRNAs are short 18–24 nucleotide non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally by binding to complementary regions mainly in the 3′ UTRs of targeted messenger RNAAs. In the present study, we describe, for 
Mitochondria contain an independently maintained genome that encodes several proteins required for cellular respiration. Deletions in the mitochondrial genome have been identified that cause several maternally inherited diseases and are associated with certain cancers and neurological disorders. Although homologous recombination ( HR ) in yeast, plant and mammalian mtDNA has been reported, the mechanisms of mitochondrial mutagenesis and repair are poorly understood, particularly double-strand break repair ( ( ).
Rheumatic heart disease ( RHD ) is a chronic and debilitating condition characterised by complications such as arrhythmias and heart failure. The true burden of the disease is expected to be far higher than the benchmark estimates, but even at conservative calculations, it is equivalent to approximately one quarter of that of cancer. Globally, ARF and rHD are almost exclusively seen in developing nations or among disadvantaged populations within developed nations. These conditions are acknowledged as diseas
A single mutation can lead to a marked change in a protein's functional properties. When the mutant protein functions within a network, complex phenotypes may emerge that are not intrinsic properties of the protein itself. Network architectures that enable such dramatic changes in function from a few mutations remain relatively uncharacterized. In this study, we describe a remarkable example of this versatility in the well-studied PhoQ/PhoP bacterial signaling network. We show that a single point mutation t, which has the potential to change the function of a bacterial protein, can change its function in such a way that it is able to function within the network and not within it.
Naegleria fowleri is a free-living amoeba that occasionally infects humans. While considered “rare” ( but likely underreported ) the high mortality rate and lack of established success in treatment makes PAM a particularly devastating infection. In the absence of economic inducements to invest in development of anti-PAM drugs by the pharmaceutical industry, drug discovery largely relies on drug ‘repurposing’—a cost effective strategy to apply known drugs for treatment of rare or neglected diseases.
There is currently no vaccine against parasitic nematodes and the knowledge on the mechanisms by which protective immunity against this class of parasites is achieved is continuously expanding. Nematode parasites trigger a host protective type 2 immune response via interleukin 4 receptor alpha ( IL-4Rα ). Despite this central role, it is not known whether the innate immune components act in concert to efficiently drive host immune responses following polarization. In order to determine the role of this mediating mechanism, we need to identify the factors that drive the host response to the polarization of the parasite.
As humans move and alter habitats, they change the disease risk for themselves, their commensal animals and wildlife. Bartonella bacteria are prevalent in mammals and cause numerous human infections. Understanding how this genus has evolved and switched hosts in the past can reveal how current patterns were established and identify potential mechanisms for future cross-species transmission.
The long noncoding MALAT1 RNA is upregulated in cancer tissues and its elevated expression is associated with hyper-proliferation, but the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. In the present study, we demonstrate that the expression and/or pre-mRNA processing of oncogenic transcription factors is regulated during normal cell cycle progression in normal human diploid fibroblasts ( HDFs ). We show that in human cells, the low expression of the long-nucleotide RNAs ( lncRNAs ) induces DNA-damage response, and in the presence of a low-expression of LncRNAAs, it induces a DNA damage response.
Juvenile hormone ( JH ), a sesquiterpenoid produced by the corpora allata, coordinates insect growth, metamorphosis, and reproduction. While its action for the repression of larval growth has been well studied, the molecular mechanism underlying the latter has not been fully elucidated. Methoprene-tolerant ( Met ) is a member of the basic helix–loop–helix ( bHLH-PAS ) transcription factor family, which has recently been identified as the receptor for juvenile hormone. We have now demonstrated using Met RNAi that it is able to modulate the expression of a protein that is known to regulate the growth of juvenile hormones.
Leprosy is an infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae. Since the introduction of antibiotic multidrug treatment ( MDT ) in the 1980’s, the number of leprosy diagnoses has decreased dramatically, and the disease was even declared eliminated as a public health problem at a global level in 2000. Nevertheless, in 2015 a total of 210 000 new patients were diagnosed worldwide. In this study, we evaluated whether a 32-week prednisolone course is more effective than a 20 weeks course in restoring and impr
Male Rocky Mountain elk ( Cervus elaphus nelsoni ) produce loud and low fundamental frequency bugles during the mating season. A critical step in understanding vocal communication is to relate sound complexity to anatomy and physiology in a causal manner. Experimentation at the sound source, often difficult in vivo in mammals, is simulated here by a finite element model of the larynx and a wave propagation model. The model can produce a wide range of fundamental frequencies. High-frequency sound requires bo
Chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput next generation sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) has become a powerful technique for large scale profiling of transcription factor binding and chromatin modifications. However, discarding multi-reads poses a significant challenge for identifying binding locations residing in genomic regions that have been duplicated over evolutionary time. We describe a general approach for utilizing reads that map to multiple locations on the reference genome that is based on a reference copy of the genome.
The control or elimination of neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) has targets defined by the WHO for 2020. We estimated the economic impact to individuals of meeting these targets for human African trypanosomiasis, leprosy, visceral leishmaniasis and Chagas disease. Economic benefit equaled the difference between the two scenarios. Values are reported in 2005 US$, purchasing power parity-adjusted and discounted at 3% per annum from 2010. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses were used to quantify the degree of u
Neurons with higher selectivity tend to respond to a narrow range of sensory inputs, and thus would be considered highly informative by rejecting a large proportion of possible inputs. In auditory cortex, neuronal responses are less selective immediately after the onset of a sound and then become highly selective in the following sustained response epoch. We found that the neural population conveys similar information about sound input across the 2 epochs in spite of the neuronal selective differences.
During acute viral infections, clearance of the pathogen is followed by the contraction of an anti-viral T cell compartment. In contrast, T cells need to be maintained over a longer period of time during chronic viral infection in order to control viral replication and to avoid viral spreading. Much is known about inhibitory signals such as through PD-1, but little about the stimulatory signals that allow maintenance of antiviral immune responses. Here, we show that the co-stimulatory molecule OX40 ( CD134 ), which has been shown to have a role in maintaining T-cell immunity, can be used to maintain a long-term T immune response.
How would life look if it evolved again on Earth, or for that matter, on any other habitable planet? The question of the role of chance versus necessity in evolution is a foundational issue in biology. Here, we show that, with respect to a very diverse group of aquatic animals, a mechanically optimal method of swimming with elongated fins has evolved independently at least eight times in both vertebrate and invertebrate swimmers across three different phyla. Specifically, if we take the length of an undulat as a starting point for our study, and take it as an example, our results suggest that a mechanical optimal swimming method with long fins is the best way to swim in the water.
During development of the cerebral cortex, neural stem cells ( NSCs ) divide symmetrically to proliferate to generate neurons. Although faithful segregation of mitotic chromosomes is critical for SSC divisions, its fundamental mechanism remains unclear. A class of evolutionarily conserved protein complexes, known as condensins, is thought to be central to chromosome assembly and segregation among eukaryotes. Here we report the first comprehensive genetic study of mammalian proteins, demonstrating that two d
Among more than 20, 000 species of hermaphroditic trematodes, Schistosomatidae are unusual since they have evolved gonochorism. Sex is determined by a female heterogametic system, but phenotypic sexual dimorphism appears only after infection of the vertebrate definitive host. The completion of gonad maturation occurs even later, after pairing. To date, the molecular mechanisms that trigger the sexual differentiation in these species remain unknown, and in vivo studies are lacking. In this study, we report the first molecular mechanism that triggers the development of female gonads in this species.
Large-scale annotation efforts typically involve several experts who may disagree with each other. We propose an approach for modeling disagreements among experts that allows providing each annotation with a confidence value ( i. e., the posterior probability that it is correct ). Our approach allows computing certainty-level for individual annotations, given annotator-specific parameters estimated from data.PharmGKB. Clinical annotations combine all variant annotations that discuss the same variant-drug p
Hantaviruses are enveloped viruses with trisegmented single-stranded RNA genomes. The three genome segments S, M, and L encode for three structural proteins: the nucleocapsid ( N ) protein, two glycoproteins Gn and Gc, an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( RdRp ), respectively. ANDV is the only virus known to be transmitted person-to-person. In South America, there are presently no approved vaccines, post-exposure prophylactics, or therapeutic treatments for HPS. We are interested in exploring the concept of us
Changes in genomic DNA methylation patterns are generally assumed to play an important role in the etiology of human cancers. The Dnmt3a methyltransferase is required for the establishment of normal epigenetic patterns, and mutations in this enzyme have been described in leukemias. Deletion of the enzyme in a mouse lung cancer model has been shown to promote tumor progression, which suggested that the enzymes might suppress tumor development by stabilizing the epigenome. We have used whole-genome bisulfite to study the role of changes in epigenetics in human cancer.
Time-locked sequences of neural activity can be found throughout the vertebrate forebrain in various species and behavioral contexts. From “time cells” in the hippocampus of rodents to cortical activity controlling movement, temporal sequence generation is integral to many forms of learned behavior. However, the mechanisms underlying sequence-generation are not well known. Here, we describe a spatial and temporal organization of the songbird premotor cortical microcircuit that supports sparsely firing neuro
The rate of aging is tied to reproduction. Genes that are essential for growth and development are highly conserved in evolution, but their role in longevity has not previously been assessed. In this study, we screened 2, 700 genes of Caenorhabditis elegans development and identified 64 genes that extend lifespan when inactivated postdevelopmentally. Many of these genes are expected to function in complex cellular pathways, including insulin and metabolic pathways but also revealed enrichment for translatio
The first critical stage in salamander or teleost appendage regeneration is creation of a specialized epidermis that instructs growth from underlying stump tissue. Here, we performed a forward genetic screen for mutations that impair this process in amputated zebrafish fins. Positional cloning and complementation assays identified a temperature-sensitive allele of the ECM component laminin beta 1a that blocks fin regeneration. lamb1a, but not its paralog, is sharply induced in a subset of epithelial cells a
Approaches based on linear mixed models ( LMMs ) have recently gained popularity for modelling population substructure and relatedness in genome-wide association studies of apparently unrelated individuals. In the last few years, a bewildering variety of different LMM methods/software packages have been developed, but it is not always clear how ( or indeed whether ) any newly-proposed method differs from previously proposed implementations. Here we compare the performance of several LMLM approaches ( and so ), and show that they differ from previous proposed implementation.
Chagas disease is caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. The disease first manifests itself with an acute phase involving symptoms of swelling near the infection site, fever, fatigue, and enlarged lymphatic organs. It can then remain asymptomatic or manifest itself in a chronic form leading to cardiac insufficiency and megacolon. At present, there is no drug to treat the chronic stage of the disease. In this study, we have optimized a whole-cell-based assay for high throughput screening of compounds in the presence of a large number of cells. This assay can be used to screen for compounds that may be of interest to drug development.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a disfiguring and disabling tropical disease caused by parasitic filarial nematodes Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia timori. Despite this significant burden of disease, the World Health Organization has championed the development of novel methodologies capable of increasing the practicality of LF eliminat
Elastomeric proteins have evolved independently multiple times through evolution. Produced as monomers, they self-assemble into polymeric structures that impart properties of stretch and recoil. They are composed of an alternating domain architecture of alternating domains interspersed with cross-linking elements. While the former provide the elasticity as well as help drive the assembly process, the latter serve to stabilise the polymer. Changes in the number and arrangement of these domains have been show
Ebolaviruses, highly lethal zoonotic pathogens, possess longer genomes than most other non-segmented negative-sense ( NNS ) RNA viruses due in part to long 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ) present in the seven viral transcriptional units. To date, specific functions have not been assigned to these regions. With reporter assays, we demonstrated that the Zaire ebolovirus ( EBOV ) L mRNA lacks internal ribosomal entry site function, and ablation of each uAUG enhanced translation of the primary ORF ( pOR ). We also showed that ablated of a UAVIRU ( uAVirus ) mRNA lacking the riboAug entry-site function for the secondary ORFR ( primary orf ) translation.
Genome instability plays a key role in multiple biological processes and diseases, including cancer. Genome-wide mapping of DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) in human chromosomes is important for understanding both chromosomal architecture and specific genomic regions. We have developed a method for precise genome-scale mapping and observed non-random fragmentation of blunt-ended DNA domains. This DNA migrates mainly in the 50–250 kb range in pulsed-field agarose gels ( PFGs ), and represents all chromosome
Trypanosomatidae are parasitic uniflagellated protists that infect plants, invertebrates and vertebrates. They are restricted to insects of the orders Diptera, Hymenoptera, Siphonaptera and Hemiptera. However, heteroxenous life cycles have been reported for some, as follows: ( i ) Leptomonas seymouri observed in coinfections with Leishmania donovani in patients with visceral leishmaniasis; ( ii ) members of Herpetomona infecting plants in an HIV-positive patient; and ( iii ) a recent report of Blastocrithid, a species of protist that has been found to infect animals and plants.
Ticks are the most common arthropod vectors of both human and animal diseases in Europe, and the Ixodes ricinus tick species is able to transmit a large number of bacteria, viruses and parasites. Ticks may also be co-infected with several pathogens, with a subsequent high likelihood of their transmission to humans or animals. However, few data exist regarding the extent to which tick-borne pathogens affect public health. In this study, we evaluated the prevalence of 38 pathogens and four symbionts in 267 countries in the European Union. We found that ticks may be infected with more than one pathogen, including several bacteria and viruses that are likely to be transmitted to human or animal hosts.
Hematopoietic stem cell lineage choices are decided by genetic networks that are turned ON/OFF in a switch-like manner. However, prior to lineage commitment, genes are primed at low expression levels. Understanding the underlying molecular circuitry in terms of how it governs both a primed state and, at the other extreme, a committed state is of relevance not only to hematopsoiesis but also to developmental systems in general. We develop a computational model for the transcriptional decision, which is based on the expression level of a gene that is primed for a low-expression state.
Enterococcus faecalis is an opportunistic pathogen with an intrinsically high resistance to lysozyme, a key effector of the innate immune system. This high level of resistance requires a complex network of transcriptional regulators and several genes ( oatA, pgdA dltA and sigV ) acting synergistically to inhibit both the enzymatic and cationic antimicrobial peptide activities. In this study, we show that the enterococcal polysaccharide antigen ( EPA ) variable region is responsible for EPA decoration, but t
One of the most intriguing questions in molecular biology is to decipher condition-specific transcription programs in complex organisms such as human. MicroRNA ( miRNA ), a small 22 nucleotide noncoding RNA species, have been shown to play a predominant role in post-transcriptional and/or translational regulation. At the maturity of microarray/sequencing technologies, large amounts of genomic data measuring the genome-wide signals of those factors became available from Encyclopedia of DNA Elements ( ENCODE  ).
The fungal kingdom comprises an enormous, diverse group of organisms. Although pathways have proliferated and specialized in various lineages, a core RNA silencing mechanism is conserved among plants, animals, fungi and other eukaryotes. Fungal viruses, or mycoviruses, are widespread and are pathogenic for a wide range of crop species worldwide. In the fungus Colletotrichum higginsianum, knock-out mutants affecting genes for three RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( RDR ), two Dicer-like ( DCL ) and two Argonaut are found in a fungus that contains a large number of fungi, plants and animals.
Meiosis, the process that generates haploid daughter cells, is critical for sexual reproduction in eukaryotes. The key to normal meiotic progression is the fidelity of chromosome interactions, during which homologous chromosomes undergo pairing, synapsis, recombination and proper segregation. In mammalian meiosis prophase I, three waves of H2AX phosphorylation expansion expansion are observed, all of which are initiated and expanded through pathways that are different from those in somatic cells. Here, we report that three different pathways in mammalian cells are involved in the same process as those that occur in cells that produce haploids.
HTLV-1, the only retrovirus associated with a neoplastic disease in humans, is the etiologic agent of Adult T-cell Leukaemia ( ATL ), an aggressive clonal lymphoproliferative disorder of mature CD4+ CD25+ T cells. It is considered that ATL develops after an extremely long ( several decades ) latency period, often in patients who were infected as neonates through breastfeeding, and is thought to result from malignant thymocytes arising at defined stages of intrathymic T cell development. In the present study, we present a new study to understand the molecular basis of the disease and to investigate the role of HTLV in the development of ATL.
Schistosomiasis remains a major public health concern in Sudan. In 2012, the Sudanese government established a control program to reduce the prevalence of S. haematobium to less than 10% by 2013. As part of this program, a drinking water supply facility was constructed at Al Jabalain locality in the White Nile State, Sudan, where infection rate was reduced more compared to that in a neighboring village within the same unit. This study focused on the outcomes of praziquantel administraion and health educatio
Nipah virus ( NiV ) is a highly pathogenic paramyxovirus that causes fatal encephalitis in humans, although the biological function associated with this nuclear localization remains obscure. Here, we report that the nuclear-cytoplasmic trafficking of the matrix protein and associated post-translational modification play a critical role in matrix-mediated virus budding. We found, quite unexpectedly, that a putative nucleocapsid ( NLS ) and the leucine-rich nuclear export signal ( NES ) found in NIPAH virus-M are found to be involved in the development of NipAH viruses, and that they play critical roles in this process.
Viruses initiate infection by transferring their genetic material across a cellular membrane and into the appropriate compartment of the cell. The mechanisms by which animal viruses deliver their genomes are only poorly understood. This is due in part to technical difficulties involved in direct visualization of viral gene delivery and to uncertainties in distinguishing productive and nonproductive pathways caused by the high particle-to–plaque forming unit ratio of most animals viruses. Here, we combine an experimental approach with a computational approach to visualize the viral genome delivery process. We combine a combination of computational and computational methods to show that the molecular structure of a virus is the same as that of an animal virus.
Dengue fever continues to be a significant public health problem in Cambodia, with significant impact on children. Health education is a major means for prevention and control of the National Dengue Control Program ( NDCP ) and is delivered to communities and in schools. However, little work has been undertaken on the mode of delivery or effectiveness of routine programs. Drawing on data collected in 2003–2004 as part of an ethnographic study conducted in eastern Cambodia in the province of Kampong Cham, w
Filarial nematodes cause chronic and profoundly debilitating diseases in both humans and animals. Applications of novel technology are providing unprecedented opportunities to improve diagnosis and our understanding of the molecular basis for host-parasite interactions. As a first step, we investigated the presence of circulating miRNAs released into the host bloodstream. miRNA deep-sequencing combined with bioinformatics revealed over 200 mature microRNA sequences in Dirofilaria immitis-infected dog plasma, which were then used to identify the circulating microRNA in the human plasma. We also found a large number of mature RNA sequences released from the blood of infected dog.
Tyrosine kinases are large allosteric enzymes that play a key role in cellular signaling. Conversion of the kinase from an inactive to an active state is accompanied by substantial structural changes. In this study, we construct a coarse-grained model of Src catalytic domain incorporating experimental structures for the two stable states, and simulate the dynamics of conformational transitions. We explore the transition energy landscapes by constructing a structural network among clusters of structural conformations.
Postzygotic lethality of the hybrid offspring from crosses between divergent parents functions as a barrier that drives or reinforces speciation. The molecular mechanisms underlying this response, however, are not understood. We have identified variation in the rate of interploidy crosses of Arabidopsis thaliana and determined the genetic architecture of this maternally expressed variation via QTL mapping. A single large-effect gene, DR. STRANGELOVE 1 ( DSL1 ) was identified as well as two QTT with epistat, and a single gene with a large effect gene ( DR. LANGUAGE 1, DSL2, 1 and 2, 2 and 3, respectively, were identified and identified.
Bats and rodents are the two most diverse and geographically widespread orders of mammals, and are important reservoirs for a growing number of emerging infectious diseases ( EIDs ) with significant impacts on public health. Over the last two decades, the majority of research on bat and rodent zoonotic diseases has focused on viral infections. The evolutionary relationships between these important mammalian hosts and their known bacterial pathogens has been little studied to date. In order to better underst
A fundamental issue in locomotion is to understand how muscle forcing produces apparently complex deformation kinematics leading to movement of animals like undulatory swimmers. In this work, a forced damped oscillation framework is applied to a chain-link model of swimming to elucidate how forcing leads to the observed movement. We show that relatively simple forcing patterns can trigger seemingly complex and emergent forms of the body, which in turn cause the translational motion. Our results are confirme
Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense ( Tbr ) is the protist parasite responsible for the vector-borne disease, sleeping sickness ( HAT ) which is transmitted from swine, avian and human influenza A viruses to humans. Here we show that SRA is present as a single copy on one homologue of chromosome IV in the majority of strains analysed and exp
Diabetes is caused by dysfunction to β-cells in the islets of Langerhans, disrupting insulin secretion and glucose homeostasis. Gap junction-mediated electrical coupling is a major role in coordinating a pulsatile secretory response at elevated glucose and suppressing insulin release at basal glucose. Previously, we demonstrated that a critical number of inexcitable cells can rapidly suppress the overall islet response, as a result of gap junction coupling. This was demonstrated in a murine model of Neonata, which is an important model for the development of diabetes in neonata.
Predicting the dynamic behavior of a large network from that of the composing modules is a central problem in systems and synthetic biology. Yet, this predictive ability is still largely missing because modules display context-dependent behavior. One cause of context dependence is retroactivity, a phenomenon similar to loading that influences in non-trivial ways the dynamics of modules upon connection to other modules. Here, we establish an analysis framework for gene transcription networks that explicitly addresses this question.
Pseudoautosomal regions ( PARs ) are segments of sequence homology between the X and Y ( or Z and W ) chromosomes, which are otherwise non-homologous. They have a critical role in meiosis in mammalian males and in the heterogametic sex in many other plant and animal species. In males, they pair up and undergo exchange of chromosomal material known as recombination or ‘crossing over’. This process is essential for the proper segregation of chromosomes into gametes, and PAR deletion results in male sterility.
In eukaryotes, the genome is organized into a highly ordered structure called chromatin, composed of DNA and histone proteins. Chromatin architecture is dynamic and regulated in part by enzymes that mediate covalent post-translational modifications of the N-terminal tails of histones. These so-called epigenetic modifications are crucial in determining cell fate decisions. Enzymes that remove methyl groups from lysine residues are highly specific for particular residues, similarly to MethylTransferases ( KMT ), which remove methyltransferases from Lysines residues ( MMTs ). In this study, we report the first step in the process of determining the fate of a cell.
Guinea worm disease ( GWD ) is caused by the parasitic worm Dracunculus medinensis, which infects people who drink water from stagnant sources containing tiny copepods ( “water fleas” ) harbouring microscopic infective larvae. Approximately one year after infection, adult female worms measuring up to one metre emerge painfully through a person’s skin. When the wound is cooled in water, the worm releases hundreds of thousands of larvae, contaminating the source and continuing the cycle of the disease.
Lyme-associated spirochetes belonging to the Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato complex are the leading arthropod-borne infectious agents in the Northern hemisphere and are capable of hematogenous dissemination whereby a wide range of remote host tissues are colonized. To survive and persist in immunocompetent hosts, Lyme pathogens must evade host immune defenses including the evolutionarily ancient proteolytic cascade of innate immunity known as the complement system. Complement is a group of nearly three doz
The opportunistic human fungal pathogen Candida albicans is commonly found as a harmless commensal on the skin and mucosal surfaces of the vaginal and gastrointestinal tracts of healthy people. However, it also causes diseases that range from superficial infections that disseminate to internal organs in immunocompromised patients, to life-threatening bloodstream infections, such as oral thrush. A key aspect of this transformation is the capability to grow in both budding yeast and hyphal forms and is tolera
Trypanosoma brucei is an extracellular parasite that replicates in the blood in early stages of infection leading to progressive neurological complications that disrupt the sleep/wake cycle and which eventually progress to coma and death. New drugs for the treatment of all three diseases are badly needed, but control is hampered by lack of good drugs, drug resistance and challenges in drug administration. Thymidine kinase ( TK ) catalyzes the formation of dTMP and dUMP and is one of several salvage enzymes 
The initiation of translation is a fundamental and highly regulated process in gene expression. Translation initiation in prokaryotic systems usually requires interaction between the ribosome and an mRNA sequence upstream of the initiation codon. However, a large number of genes do not possess Shine-Dalgarno sequences, and it is unknown how the correct translation initiation site is recognized in these mRNAs. Here we have performed genome-wide searches in various groups of proteins in order to identify which mRNA sequences are associated with the appropriate translation site in the mRNA. We have searched for the RNA-transcription initiation sites of various proteins and found that they are not recognized.
Post Kala-Azar Dermal Leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) occurs in up to 10% of patients treated for visceral leishmania ( VL ) in India. It is for this reason that MSF and the WHO currently only use Ambisome rather than other preparations. However it is urgent that clear regulatory guidelines for endemic countries be established by a normative setting organisation like the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and other existing formulations be formally evaluated. In this study, we describe the characteristics of the pati
Trypanosoma cruzi is the causative agent of Chagas disease in the Americas. It is currently unknown what spatial and temporal pattern of repeated insecticide application maximizes its efficiency. This knowledge cannot be gained in laboratory studies but instead requires analyzing field data that cover the spatial range of T. infestans dispersal and the temporal range. In this study we show how continuous- and discrete-time models fitted to patch-level infestation states can elucidate different aspects of re
Polyomaviruses are small, nonenveloped DNA-containing viruses that establish persistent infections in susceptible hosts and induce tumors under certain conditions. Little is known of the patterns and dynamics of acute and chronic infections by polyomsavirus in vivo, except that kidneys appear to be a common site of long-term persistence. Simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) has served as a model cancer virus and has revealed many insights into fundamental cell processes and basic mechanisms of cell transformation. In 
Genome-wide scans for positively selected genes ( PSGs ) in mammals have provided insight into the dynamics of genome evolution, the genetic basis of differences between species, and the functions of individual genes. However, previous scans have been limited in power and accuracy owing to small numbers of available genomes. Here we present the most comprehensive examination of positive selection in mammalian genomes to date, using the six high-coverage genome assemblies now available for eutherian mammals.
Staphylococcus aureus is the causative agent of numerous diseases ranging from relatively benign skin conditions to fatal systemic infections. Persistent infections often involve surface-associated communities called biofilms. Here we report the discovery of a novel extracellular fibril structure that promotes S. bacillus biofilm integrity. These fibers have amyloid-like properties and consist of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins ( PSMs ). Mutants unable to produce PSM were susceptible to disassociation of the peptide ( a protein that is soluble in water ) from the host. This protein is able to be used as a drug to treat the disease.
Trypanosoma cruzi parasite, the causative agent of Chagas disease, infects about six million individuals in more than 20 countries. Monitoring parasite persistence in infected individuals is of utmost importance to develop and evaluate treatments to control the disease. Currently the main criterion to establish treatment success is the reversion of the conventional serology from positive to negative status in association with negative results on parasitological tests ( xenodiagnosis and/or heamoculture, or  ).
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is a globally re-emerging arthropod-transmitted virus that acutely causes fever as well as severe joint and muscle pain. Chronic musculoskeletal pain persists in a substantial fraction of patients for months to years after the initial infection, yet we still have a poor understanding of what promotes chronic disease. To identify the cells that might contribute to pathogenesis during this chronic phase, we developed a recombinant recombinase that replicates in myoblasts and fibroblasts. We have identified the genes that are involved in the development of this disease, and we have discovered that these cells are likely to play an important role in this process.
Neural mechanisms underlying decision-making are typically unknown during in vivo recordings, and it is unclear how these results relate to the underlying network structure. We address these questions by applying factor analysis to recordings in the visual cortex of non-human primates and to spiking network models that self-generate irregular activity through a balance of excitation and inhibition. In this work, we compared the scaling trends of two key outputs of dimensionality reduction—shared dimensional—in a study of the spatial and temporal structure of a network model of human brain activity.
Bacterial quorum sensing ( QS ) is a communication system widely utilized by bacteria to perceive and promote collective behaviors that depend on population density signaling. However, whether microbes utilize these immunomodulatory signals to maintain infection
Retroelements have profoundly shaped mammalian genomes over millions of years. Insertion of these selfish elements can lead to gene inactivation or changes in transcriptional profiles of neighboring genes. Moreover, the presence of large stretches of almost identical sequence distributed across the genome poses recombinational hazards, leading to chromosomal rearrangements, often with pathological consequences. The retrotransposition activity of retroelements can occasionally drive dramatic episodes of adap
Vibrio cholerae is the causative agent of cholera, a potentially lethal diarrheal disease that remains an important global health problem, having caused seven pandemics since 1817. The ability to adapt to environmental changes is particularly important for pathogens during invasion of the host. Bacterial adaptation is often mediated through modulation of gene expression at the post-transcriptional level, which in term is regulated by ribonucleases ( RNases ) that act either directly on their target mRNAs or indirectly on the target RNAs. In term, the expression of genes involved in the transcriptional regulation of mRNA expression has often been modulated by RNA-RNases.
Many developmental, physiological, and behavioral processes depend on the precise expression of genes in space and time. Such spatiotemporal gene expression phenotypes arise from the binding of sequence-specific transcription factors ( TFs ) to DNA, which regulate nearby genes that such binding causes. TFNs are directed networks where each TF may have both incoming and outgoing connections. We know very little about how a TFN's assortativity signature affects the robustness of its expression phenotype to ge
A fundamental goal in neuroscience is to understand the complex mechanisms by which populations of inhibitory ( INH ) and excitatory ( EXC ) neocortical neurons collectively encode stimulus-related information. Here we address this question by simultaneously recording with large-scale multi-electrode arrays ( of up to 128 channels ) the activity of cell ensembles distributed along all layers of 3–4 neighboring cortical columns in the anesthetized adult rat som
Synthetic biology aims at ( re- ) programming living cells like computers to perform new functions for a variety of applications. Initial work rested on transcription factors, but regulatory RNAs have recently gained much attention due to their high programmability. In this work, we report the engineering of a fundamental arithmetic logic unit based on de novo riboregulation to sum two bits of information encoded in molecular concentrations. Our designer circuit robustly performs the intended computation in
Cytosolic 5′-nucleotidase II ( cN-II ) regulates the intracellular nucleotide pools within the cell by catalyzing the dephosphorylation of 6-hydroxypurine nucleoside 5’-monophosphates. The main advantage of this series of analogues resides in the presence of its phosphotransferase activity ( transfer of a phosphate group from a phosphorylated nucleoide to another nucleotide ) and one would expect a full inhibition of the activity upon binding to the phosphonate analogue. Here, we focused our attention to β-β-Cylindrical 3-Nucleotide 1 ( α-1 ), the first analogue of cyclotracytoplasmic 5-acetyltransferase, which is catalyzed to catalyze the release of an amino acid from the phosphate analogue to a new phosphate analog. In the present study, our focus was on the second analogue ( β ). This analogue has the potential to be a useful target for the development of anti-covalent therapeutics.
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies ( TSE ), or prion disease, are fatal neurodegenerative disorders occurring in sheep, cattle, and humans. In the past few months, evidence for the transmission of scrapie to lambs, via colostrum/milk, has become a priority based on both the eradication of food producing animals and the exclusion of known infectious materials from the food chain. Because investigations carried out as early as the 1960's failed to reveal evidence of the presence of prions in milk from sheep and cattle were not able to provide evidence that the existence of any infectious material from milk was present in the milk chain, it is important to investigate the origin of this disease.
An outbreak of Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) in Liberia began in March 2014 and ended in January 2016. Epidemiological information was collected and managed nationally; however, collection and management of the data were challenging at the time because surveillance and reporting systems malfunctioned during the outbreak. Here we present data on 16, 370 laboratory samples that were tested between April 4, 2014, March 29, 2015 and April 3, 2014. A total of 10, 536 traceable individuals were identified, of whom 3, 897 were traced to the West African country of Liberia.
Tyrosinase ( EC 1. 14. 18. 1 ), a copper-containing monooxygenase, catalyzes the conversion of phenol to the corresponding ortho-quinone through the formation of the μ-η2-peroxy-dicopper and Cu ( II ) -dopasemiquinone intermediates. Until now—despite extensive studies for the catalytic mechanism, which is based on the crystallographic analysis, low-molecular-weight models, and computer simulations—the catalyst mechanism has been unable to be made clear at an atomic level. In the present study, the crystal s
The yeast large ribosomal subunit, the first pre-60S particle, contains 30 assembly factors ( AFs ), including 8 RNA helicases, presumed to drive conformational rearrangements. The mechanisms by which they are targeted to their correct substrate in vitro and their precise molecular roles remain largely unknown. We demonstrate that the Dbp6p helicase, essential for the normal accumulation and maturation of the yeast first-producible precursor, is involved in the formation and/or clustering of root helices, which are associated with the proper accumulation of a precursor precursor.
The ability to adapt to a changing world requires the updating of beliefs in response to unexpected events that signal potential environmental change. However, the brain mechanisms, and in particular the neuromodulators, involved in this process are still largely unknown. Here, we report evidence for a role of the human catecholamine systems in learning-rate regulation, using a well-established ‘predictive-inference’ task that provides direct measures of prediction error and learning rate on each trial.
Infectious diseases still represent a major challenge for humanity in the 21st century, especially because i ) we still discover more and more possible pathogens with new technologies, ii ) pathogens are naturally evolving, leading to the emergence or re-emergence of pathogens, iii ) people and resources are moving and exchanging faster and faster around the world, which directly affects the ecosystems, and iv ) their appearance and disappearance in different human populations cannot be reliably modeled.
A key feature of multicellular systems is the ability of cells to function collectively in response to external stimuli. However, the mechanisms of intercellular cell signaling and their functional implications in diverse vascular structures are poorly understood. Using a combination of computational modeling and plasma lithography micropatterning, we investigate the roles of structural arrangement of endothelial cells in collective calcium signaling. We show that the calcium oscillation depends on the size of the cell and the amount of calcium that it produces.
Respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) is the major cause of lower respiratory tract disease among infants and children globally. However, the relative contribution of F and G specific antibodies to protection in vivo is not completely understood. In the current study, we generated gene fragment phage display libraries ( GFPDL ) for the attachment glycoprotein G to elucidate the complete antibody epitope repertoire in serum samples from infants either prior to ( <9 months ) or post-RSV infection. The G-reactiv was generated in the present study. We generated a gene-fragile display library for G, a protein that is involved in attachment-mediated immune responses to the virus and is a key component of the immune response to virus infection in vitro.
During embryonic development, a number of genetic cues act to generate neuronal diversity. While intrinsic transcriptional cascades are well-known to control neuronal sub-type cell fate, the target cells can also provide critical input to specific neuronal cell fates. One salient example of such target-derived instructive signals pertains to the specification of the Drosophila FMRFamide neuropeptide neurons. In this study, we focus on the function of brr2 and its putative role in RNA processing in the acqui
Ubiquitin is covalently linked to substrates in a multistep process that requires coordinated action of 3 classes of enzymes- E1, E2, and E3 ubiquitins ligases. Unbalanced levels can lead to sequestration of CRL core components by a few overabundant substrate receptors. Numerous diseases, including cancer, have been associated with misregulation of substrate receptor components, particularly for the largest class of proteins, the F-box proteins. One relevant mechanism that controls the abundance of their su
Kinesin-3 motors drive the long-distance transport of synaptic vesicles and other membrane-bound organelles in neuronal cells. In the absence of cargo, motor activity is kept inactive to prevent motility and ATP hydrolysis. Current models state that the motor KIF1A is monomeric in the inactive state and that activation results from concentration-driven dimerization on the cargo membrane. Unexpectedly, we found that both native and expressed proteins are dimeric, suggesting a simple model for activation of kineinsin 3 motors. We also discovered that KINEIN-4 motors are both monomersic. Surprisingly, our results suggest that this is not the case for other proteins, but rather that these proteins have dimers on their cargo membranes.
The domestication of tomato, as of many other crop plants, is coupled to the erosion of its genetic variability. Strategies based on the exploitation of natural variation are being extensively employed in an effort to reintroduce the lost genetic variation into cultivated species. The utility of advanced genetic populations to study the genetic basis of metabolic traits in plants has been demonstrated by the generation and analysis o
Vibrio cholerae is a Gram-negative bacterial pathogen that causes excessive watery diarrhea in humans. In aquatic environments, attachment to fish, crustacea and algae enables the bacteria to obtain nutrients, thereby providing a competitive advantage compared to other free-swimming bacteria. Adherence to these different niches involves an N-acetylglucosamine binding protein ( GbpA ) that has been reported to mediate bacterial attachment of both marine chitin and mammalian intestinal mucin through an enzymatic mechanism.
Chronic T cell activation is a hallmark of pulmonary tuberculosis ( PTB ) infection. The mechanisms underpinning this important phenomenon are however, poorly elucidated, though known to rely on control of T effector cells ( Teff ) by regulatory T cells. Our studies show that circulating natural Treg cells in adults with TB preserve their suppressive potential but T-cells from such subjects are resistant to suppression. We found this to be due to expansion of an activated subset identified by Human Leukocytus, which was previously identified as a subset of the human immune system that is activated in patients with tuberculosis.
Prions, the causative agents of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, contain as their main component PrPSc, a multimeric conformer of the ubiquitous host protein PrPC, which accumulates mainly in intracellular compartments. Mice expressing prPC without GPI anchor ( tgGPI- mice ) are susceptible to prion infection but accumulate anchorless prions extra, rather than extracellularly. We found that RML and ME7, but not 22L Prions propagated in wild-type brain developed novel cell tropisms, as determined
The Bone Morphogenetic Protein ( BMP ) signaling pathway is used repeatedly throughout development to regulate a diverse array of processes. In this study, using the Drosophila embryo as a model, we combine RNA-seq with Mad and Brinker ChIP-sequencing to decipher the transcriptional network underpinning differentiation of the dorsal ectoderm during dorsal-ventral axis patterning. We identify multiple new target genes, including positive and negative regulators of EGF signaling, and find widespread binding o
In Tunisia, zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania major is increasing and spreading from the south-west to new areas in the center. It is largely recognized that the population structure of pathogens is influenced by different evolutionary factors, particularly during invasion of new ecosystems. However it is not known how their geographical distribution and temporal emergence affected the genetic structure and evolution of Tunisian L. major populations, mainly because multi-locus enzyme el
The neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) are a group of parasitic and bacterial infections that are associated with substantial global disease and disability, particularly in low income communities. Mass drug administration ( MDA ), or the presumptive treatment of all at risk individuals with preventive chemotherapy, is used to control helminth associated morbidity in endemic areas. However, water, sanitation, and hygiene ( WASH ) interventions may also be important for reducing transmission. In this study, we report on the use of water and sanitation as a means of controlling the transmission of the disease.
Bacteriocins are proteins that bind to specific lipopolysaccharide moieties and insert their core structure through the cell envelope, causing depolarization of the cytoplasmic membrane. A major strategy in niche colonization is the production of growth inhibitors or toxins directed at microbial competitors. While a huge variety of secondary metabolites is used to target phylogenetically-distant competitors, ribosome-synthesized peptides or proteins are typically active against close relatives, and may eith
Sporulation in Bacillus subtilis involves two cells that follow separate but coordinately regulated developmental programs. Late in sporulation, the developing spore ( the forespore ) resides within a mother cell. The regulation of the transcription factor σG that acts at this stage has remained enigmatic. In this study, we show that eight mother-cell proteins encoded in the spoIIIA operon are required for the activity of transcription factors. Several of these proteins share similarity with components of s
Bipolar disorder ( BD ) is a highly heritable and disabling disorder affecting approximately 1% of the population. Patients with BD suffer extreme mood swings between mania and depression, and 17% suicide. We present new genotype data for 1, 190 cases and 401 controls and perform a genome-wide association study including additional samples for a total of 2, 191 patients and 1, 434 controls. To demonstrate that this result is not likely to be a false positive, we analyze replication rates in a large meta-ana
Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide and it is estimated that 12. 7 million new cancer cases and 7. 6 million cancer deaths occurred in 2008. One of the hallmarks of cancer is uncontrolled cellular proliferation. In an attempt to find new anti-cancer drug targets, various studies in recent years used short hairpin RNA ( shRNA ) techniques and screened thousands of genes to identify those that are essential for cancer growth and proliferation and are therefore putative targets for clinical interventi
Cystic echinococcosis ( CE ) can affect the heart and the vena cava but few cases are reported. A retrospective case series of 11 patients with cardiac and/or endovascular CE, followed-up over a period of 15 years ( 1995–2009 ) was performed. Main clinical manifestations included thoracic pain or dyspnea, although 2 patients were asymptomatic. Cysts were located mostly in the right atrium and inferior vava. Two patients died 10 and 14 years after diagnosis, due to pulmonary embolism ( PE ) and cardiac fail
Toll/interleukin-1 receptor ( TIR ) domains in Toll-like receptors are essential for initiating and propagating the eukaryotic innate immune signaling cascade. In the present work, we investigate TirS, a Staphylococcus aureus tIR mimic that is part of a novel bacterial invasion mechanism. Our results show that the tirS gene is invariably located within the chromosomal cassettes ( SCC ) containing the fusC gene and co-located with the mecA ( for the MRSA strains ) antibiotic resistance genes. Interestingly, the antibiotic resistant genes are antibiotic-resistant and resistant to the M. S. Antibiotic resistance gene are also found in the same region.
Evolutionary innovations can be driven by spatial and temporal changes in gene expression. Several such differences have been documented in the embryos of lower and higher Diptera. One example is the reduction of the ancient extraembryonic envelope composed of amnion and serosa, as seen in mosquitoes and fruit flies. We used transcriptional datasets collected during the embryonic development of fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, and the malaria mosquito, Anopheles gambiae, to search for whole-genome changes, including the loss of an ancient “epigenetic envelope” that was composed mainly of myniotic and mycobacterium.
Haemophilus ducreyi and Treponema pallidum subsp. pertenue are major causes of leg ulcers in children in Africa and the Pacific Region. We investigated the presence of DNA ( PCR positivity ) from these bacteria on asymptomatic people, flies, and household linens in an endemic setting in Papua New Guinea during a yaws elimination campaign. Our results showed that 20% of children living in the H. dukrei-endemic communities had detectable DNA on the skin. These children had no evidence of cutaneous ulceration 
Bioinformatics is recognized as part of the essential knowledge base of numerous career paths in biomedical research and healthcare. However, there is little agreement in the field over what that knowledge entails or how best to provide it. These disagreements are compounded by the wide range of populations in need of training, with divergent prior backgrounds and intended application areas. The Curriculum Task Force ( ISCB ) Education Committee has sought to create a framework for training needs and curricula in order to address these disagreements. In this work, we have created a curriculum that will be used to train a wide variety of individuals with different backgrounds.
The infectious form of many parasitic nematodes, which afflict over one billion people globally, is a developmentally arrested third-stage larva ( L3i ). This life cycle allows us to investigate the mechanisms underlying different developmental fates for similar larval forms. To test this, we undertook a deep-sequencing study of the polyadenylated tra
Cells are frequently exposed to bacterial genotoxins involved in digestive cancers, colibactin and Cytolethal Distending Toxin ( CDT ), the latter being secreted by many pathogenic bacteria. Our aim was to evaluate the effects induced by these bacteria on nuclear remodeling in the context of cell survival. Helicobacter infected mice, coculture experiments, and xenograft mouse-derived models were used to assess the results in vitro and in vivo. These results showed that the formation of deep cytoplasmic inva was the first step to the understanding of the effect of these bacterial toxins on the cell-survival process.
Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae and classified by Ridley-Jopling’s five-group system from lepromatous ( LL ) to tuberculoid ( TT ). Briefly, LL cases show no cellular immunity and manifest as a generalized disease including nasal cavities that resemble miliary tuberculosis, while TT cases shows a limited disease manifestation resembling the primary complex of tuberculosis. As a result, facial deformation is one of the serious sequelae of leprosy because these can lead 
To accurately recognize behaviorally relevant sounds in the presence of background noise, the auditory brain must therefore represent them in a way that is robust to noise. Here we investigated the extent of neuronal adaptation to the mean and contrast of auditory stimulation as one ascends the pathway. We measured these forms of adaptation by presenting complex synthetic and natural sounds, recording neuronal responses in auditory cortex of anaesthetized ferrets, and comparing these responses with a sophis. Our results show that the brain is able to accurately represent the sound of a natural stimulus as it ascribes the path.
Heat shock, the archetype of stress responses, is a well-characterized and simple model organism, since both its protein-protein interaction network ( interactome ) and stress response at the gene expression level h
Chagas disease is a neglected chronic condition caused by Trypanosoma cruzi, with high prevalence and burden in Latin America. Cardiac complications result in remodeling of the cardiac collagenous matrix and subsequent fibrosis, leading to increased myocardial stiffness, systolic and diastolic dysfunction, and ultimately a severe dilated cardiomyopathy associated with ventricular arrhythmias. Since trypanocidal therapy with benznidazole had not proved to reduce cardiac clinical deterioration in clinical tri
Seasonality is a major determinant of infectious disease rates, including arboviruses spread by mosquitoes, such as dengue, chikungunya, and Zika, among others. Seasonal patterns of disease are driven by a combination of climatic or environmental factors and human behavioral time trends. In this study, we used Poisson generalized linear modeling to determine short- and long-term seasonal patterns and the effect of day of the week and weekday-weekend patterns. We determined the impact of school schedules on day-of-the week, weekday weekend and weekday patterns, as well as the effects of time of year and school schedule.
Most viruses store and replicate their genetic information as RNA, with no DNA component. For many emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases, definitive solutions via sterilizing adaptive immunity may require years or decades to develop, if they are even possible. The innate immune system offers alternative mechanisms that do not require antigen-specific recognition or a priori knowledge of the causative agent. However, it is unclear whether effective stable innate immunity can be achieved without trigge
Effective population size ( Ne ) determines the strength of genetic drift and the frequency of co-infection by multiple genotypes, making it a key factor in viral evolution. Experimental estimates of Ne for different plant viruses have, however, rendered diverging results. The independent action hypothesis ( IAH ) states that each virion has a probability of infection, and that virions act independent of one another during the infection process. A corollary of IH is that Ne must be dose dependent. To test t
The majority of expression quantitative trait locus ( eQTL ) studies have been carried out in single tissues or cell types, using methods that ignore information shared across tissues. Although global analysis of gene expression in multiple tissues is now feasible, few integrated statistical frameworks for joint analysis and simultaneous analysis are developed to date. In this paper, we propose Sparse Bayesian Regression models for mapping expression QTLs within individual tissues and simultaneously across 
When exposed to tumor necrosis factor or TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) both closely related death ligands and investigational therapeutic, cells enter a protracted period of variable duration in which only upstream initiator caspases are active. A subsequent and sudden transition marks activation of the downstream effector cepases that rapidly dismantle the cell. Thus, extrinsic cell death is controlled by an unusual variable-delay, snap-action switch that enforces an unambiguous choice b
During pregnancy, the placenta protects the fetus against the maternal immune response, as well as bacterial and viral pathogens. Bacterial pathogens that have evolved specific mechanisms of breaching this barrier, such as Listeria monocytogenes, present a unique opportunity for investigating the mechanistic features that make the feto-maternal barrier so formidable. In this work, we identify the host cell cytoplasmic protein afadin as a major binding partner for InlP, a member of the internalin family of p
The spirochete bacterium Treponema pallidum is the etiological agent of syphilis, a chronic multistage disease with an estimated 8 million new cases per year. Little is known about the global T. pallidium proteome, therefore mass spectrometry studies are needed to bring insights into pathogenicity and protein expression profiles during infection. To better understand the bacterial pathogenesis of this enigmatic organism, we studied a large number of bacterial strains isolated from rabbits in the late 1990’s
Protein Kinase A ( PKA ) is the major receptor for the cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) secondary messenger in eukaryotes. CAMP is a multi-domain protein, starting from a dimerization-docking domain followed by a flexible linker, which includes an inhibitory site for C and is in turn flanked by two tandem cAM-binding domains ( CBD-A and -B ) that provide additional contact sites for binding the C-subunit. Preliminary evidence suggests that the dynamics of the CBDs are critical for its gatekeeper function.
The type I interferon ( IFN ) -stimulated gene 15 ( ISG15 ) encodes one of the most abundant proteins in the immune system, and its expression is associated with antiviral immunity. To identify protein components implicated in this organelle, we compared the proteomes of mice infected with vaccinia virus ( VACV ) and bone marrow derived macrophages ( BMDM ) after vaccination. The results of this analysis revealed that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative phosphorylation ( OXPHOS ) were pathways altered i
Viral protein U ( Vpu ) of HIV-1 has two known functions in replication of the virus: degradation of its cellular receptor CD4 and enhancement of viral particle release. We previously reported the cloning and the characterization of a novel phosphorylation site in the viral protein. Here we show that, especially in cells arrested in early mitosis by the cell-cycle arrest triggered by nocodazole, the degradation occurs via a βTrCP-independent pathway. In addition, we demonstrate that this degradation process is mediated by a protein-protein-coupled pathway, in addition to the development of an enzyme that catalyzes this process.
Organisms require robust developmental processes to guarantee that developing tissues pattern correctly in the face of a wide range of environmental and physiological conditions. We propose two hypotheses through which tissue patterning could be coordinated with whole-body development to generate this robustness. Our first hypothesis states that the progression of pattern in individual tissues is tightly coordinated and happens at developmental milestones, indicating that these key developmental events are important for the development of tissues to be able to cope with a variety of physiological and environmental conditions at the same time.
In highly polarised cells, like fungal hyphae, early endosomes function in both endocytosis as well as long-distance transport of various cargo including mRNA and protein complexes. However, knowledge on the crosstalk between these seemingly different trafficking processes is scarce. Here, we demonstrate that the ESCRT regulator Did2 coordinates the precise maturation of the membrane mRNAs required for the correct transport to the lysosomal/vacuole compartment. Loss of Rrm4 results in defective vacuolar tar, which leads to a defective infection in the cytoplasm. We also show that loss of a key regulator of ESCRRT ( ESCRsRT ) regulates the timing of M-maturation to ensure the proper delivery of m-nuclei to and from the cargo compartment, and that this is achieved by a precise and precise process that is precisely timed in order to correct the transport.
Many bacterial mRNAs are regulated at the transcriptional or translational level by ligand-binding elements called riboswitches. Although they both bind adenine, the bacillus subtilis and Vibrio vulnificus differ by controlling transcription and translation, respectively. Here, we demonstrate that, beyond the obvious difference in transcription/transational modulation, both ligands bind the same protein and appear to operate under different regulation regimes ( kinetic versus thermodynamic ). Our results su
Transcription in all cells is carried out by multi-subunit RNA polymerases ( RNAPs ) that are conserved in sequence, structure, and function from bacteria to humans. The first step in transcription, initiation, consists of a number of discrete steps that culminate in the catalysis of the first phosphodiester bond formed within the nascent RNA, � “de novo initiation. ” Although PDI has been long known to occur during transcription reactions performed in vitro ( reviewed in [3] ), it has only recently been show
In mammals and in plants, parental genome dosage imbalance deregulates embryo growth and might be involved in reproductive isolation between emerging new species. These observations led to the discovery of imprinted genes, which are expressed by a single parental allele. The parental conflict hypothesis was supported to a certain extent in the frame of the kinship theory. However these hypotheses were never tested directly. Here, we investigated the effect of maternal genome imbalance on the expression of A
Neurophysiological recordings of ongoing neural activity with EEG and MEG exhibit oscillations of specific frequencies over a non-oscillatory background. In the power spectrum, these rhythms appear as a collection of frequency bands that are evenly spaced on a logarithmic scale, thereby preventing mutual entrainment and cross-talk. We hypothesized that if we were able to construct abstract networks, or “virtual brains”, whose dynamics were similar to EEG/MEG recordings, those networks would share structural and structural structural similarities with those of EEG recordings and those recordings would exhibit structural similarity to those from both recordings.
The Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis ( MESA ) provides one of the largest and most thoroughly-characterized samples of Hispanic individuals to date, with ∼60, 000 SNPs selected for minimal linkage disequilibrium. Using the recently available genome-wide genotype data, we perform population structure analysis of an unrelated subset of 1, 374 unrelated individuals from the Multicenter Hispanic cohort. We show the first two principal components ( PCs ) of ancestry quantify the Caucasian, African, and Nati
Histones that form the core components of nucleosomes, the basic building block of chromatin, are modified post-translationally by acetylation, methylation and ubiquitination. Histone chaperones facilitate DNA replication and gene transcription processes by binding to histones and/or disassembly. However, how these pathways are regulated is not well understood. In this report, we report an interaction between the Elongator histone-acetyltransferase ( HAT ) and the proliferating cell nuclear antigen. Cells l
Understanding how genetic variation in a population influences phenotypic variation is of major importance in biology. Naturally occurring genetic variants, both rare and common, can provide insight into disease mechanism and protein function. This understanding, coupled with the recent explosion in next-generation sequencing, has meant that it is now impossible for individual researchers to collect and collate all the variant information that may be relevant to them. To assist researchers, variants in publ
Gain-of-function mutations in the KCNJ2-encoded Kir2. 1 channels underlie variant 3 ( SQT3 ) of the short QT syndrome, which is associated with atrial fibrillation ( AF ). Using biophysically-detailed human atria computer models, this study investigated the mechanistic link between mutations on the human action potential ( AP ) and the potential ion channel targets for treatment of S3-linked AF. The D172N and E299V mutations produced distinct effects on IK1 and APD shortening. Both mutations decreased WL f, and one mutation decreased the ability of me to perform the task of controlling my heart rate, while the other decreased my ability to do so.
Chagas disease, caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi, is a complex systemic disease endemic in Central and South America. It has been gathering interest due to increases in non-vectorial forms of transmission, especially in developed countries. The objective of this work was to investigate if adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stromal cells ( ASC ) can alter the course of the disease and attenuate pathology in a mouse model of chagasmic cardiomyopathy. ASC were injected intraperitoneally at 3 days post, and we were able to show that ASC could be injected in mouse models of Chagass disease.
In infected mammalian cells, Leishmania parasites reside within specialized compartments called parasitophorous vacuoles ( LPVs ). We have previously shown that Retro-2cycl, a member of a novel class of small retrograde pathway inhibitors, caused reduced LPV sizes and lower parasite numbers during experimental L. mexicana sp. infections. The purpose of this study was to determine if structural analogs of retro-receptor-dependent phenomena ( i. e., polyomavirus cellular infection in cells ) are also more eff
The nucleosome—a bulky and ubiquitous protein structure tightly bound to DNA—is believed to be the fundamental unit of genomic organization in the eukaryotic cell. This organizational paradigm lays the groundwork for the incredible diversity of cellular morphology and function that can arise from a single genome. The role of histone modifications in regulating gene expression has received considerable attention since the discovery of the epigenome, and considerably more attention is still required to understand how the structure of DNA is organized and how it is regulated.
CDK activation depends on the phosphorylation of their T-loop by a CDK–activating kinase ( CAK ). In animals, the only known Cip/Kip CD-K inhibitors p21 and p27 in this process are constitutively active. However, in unperturbed cell cycles, it is also transiently induced by mitogenic/oncogenic signaling. Therefore, a critical activation step is dephosphorylated of inhibitory sites by Cdc25 phosphatases rather than unrestricted TK4/6 activity. Here, we have identified the activating T172 as the highly regulated, highly conserved, and highly-regulated, signaling pathway.
Meiosis is a complex process during which homologous chromosomes recombine, synapse, and segregate in two successive rounds without an intervening S-phase. Coordination of meiotic events is essential for successful production of haploid daughter cells. In yeast, entry into meiosis activates transcription factors which trigger a transcriptional cascade that results in sequential co-expression of early, middle and late genes. However, the factors and regulatory mechanisms that ensure proper gene expression in
Fragile X–associated tremor/ataxia syndrome ( FXTAS ) is a neurodegenerative disorder seen mainly among male premutation carriers in or beyond their fifth decade of life. Previous studies have shown that FragileX rCGG repeat-binding proteins Pur α and hnRNP A2/B1 can modulate neuronal toxicity. In this study, we took a proteomic approach and identified more than 100 proteins that interact with Rm62, the Drosophila ortholog of p68 RNA helicase, which is known to play a novel role in RNA export and gene deact
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic human pathogen that can cause life-threatening infections in cystic fibrosis ( CF ) patients and individuals with a compromised immune system. Biofilm bacteria are less susceptible to antimicrobial agents and are protected from the host immune response, giving rise to chronic infections that are notoriously difficult to eradicate. One of the most important features of a biofilm is the extracellular polymeric substance that functions as a matrix, holding bacterial c
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) has the worst prognosis among solid malignancies and improved therapeutic strategies are needed to improve outcomes. Patient-derived xenografts and PDX serve as promising tools to identify new drugs with therapeutic potential in the disease. For these preclinical disease models to be effective, they should both recapitulate and validate patient-specific therapeutic sensitivities, a necessary step before widespread screening therapeutics. To date however, deep charac
Breast cancer is one of the most common malignancies diagnosed among women worldwide, including those living in East Asian countries. Genetic factors play an important role in the etiology of both sporadic and familial breast cancer. We conducted a large genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) in 19, 091 cases and 20, 606 controls of East-Asian descent including Chinese, Korean, and Japanese women. After analyzing 690, 947 SNPs, we evaluated 5, 365 for replication in 3, 852 cases, 3, 853 controls, 1, 788 cases ( 2, 972 cases ) and 2, 652 controls. Ninety-fou
Cryptococcal meningitis ( CM ), caused by the fungus Cryptococcus neoformans, is one of the major causes of AIDS-related mortality, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, where it was estimated to account for as many as 500, 000 deaths annually prior to wide scale availability of antiretroviral therapy ( ART ). A number of clinical adverse prognostic markers in HIV-associated CM have been identified, including high fungal burden at CM diagnosis, poor rate of cryptococcal clearance from patient cerebrospinal fl
There are numerous examples of how signal transduction pathways within an organism selectively share components. For instance, in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, components are shared to varying degrees among pathways regulating mating, filamentation, cell wall integrity, ascospore formation, and osmoregulation. These examples, however, have not provided insights into how such pathways evolve. Here, through construction of an overexpression library for 107 transcription factors and through mutational an
The genomic GC-content of bacteria varies dramatically, from less than 20% to more than 70%. This variation is generally ascribed to differences in the pattern of mutation between bacteria. Here we test this hypothesis by examining patterns of synonymous polymorphism using datasets from 149 bacterial species. We find a large excess of GC→AT mutations over AT→GC mutations segregating in all but the most AT-rich bacteria, across a broad range of phylogenetically diverse species, and we show that this pattern 
Control of soil-transmitted helminths ( STHs ) requires accurate, contemporary maps that provide intervention recommendations at policy-relevant spatial scales. Here we present a new approach for mapping the observed prevalence of infection, using the example of Kenya in 2009. Observed prevalence data for hookworm, Ascaris lumbricoides and Trichuris trichiura were assembled for 106, 370 individuals from 945 cross-sectional surveys undertaken between 1974 and 2009 in Kenya. Ecological and climatic covariates
The immune response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) requires a coordinated response between the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system, resulting in a type 1 cytokine response, which is associated with control of infection. However, the contribution of innate lymphocytes to immunity against tuberculosis remains controversial. We established an in vitro system to study this question. Interferon-γ is produced when splenocytes from uninfected mice are cultured with infected macrophages, and, under
Bacterial endospores are highly resilient cells in part because they are surrounded by a complex protein coat. Proteins in the coat that surrounds Bacillus subtilis, a TGase, are crosslinked by the enzyme Tg
Opisthorchis viverrini is a food-borne trematode species that might give rise to biliary diseases and the fatal cholangiocarcinoma, a bile duct cancer with extremely poor prognosis. In Lao PDR, an estimated 2. 5 million individuals are infected with the parasite. However, the spatial distribution of infection remains to be determined. A cross-sectional parasitological and questionnaire survey was carried out in 51 villages in Champasack province in the first half of 2007. Data on demography, socioeconomic s
Dar es Salaam has an extensive drain network, mostly with inadequate water flow, blocked by waste, and causing flooding after rainfall. The presence of Anopheles and Culex larvae is common, which is likely to impact the transmission of lymphatic filariasis and malaria by the resulting adult mosquito populations. However, the actual importance of drains as larval habitats remains unknown. We analyzed the typology of mosquito breeding habitats routinely collected by Urban Malaria Control Program ( UMCP ) and 
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most common mosquito-borne viral disease in humans. Changes of lipid-related metabolites in endoplasmic reticulum are associated with replicative complexes formation. In this work, using enzymatic assays, ELISA, and WB we found a significant higher activity of HMGCR, a viral protein that is present in cholesterol-rich complexes ( lipid rafts ). AMPK activation by metformin and lovastatin decreased the activity, suggesting that the inhibition of this phosphatase induces an antivi
Biological machines are ubiquitous in the cell and typically contain many molecules that include protein, RNA, and other cofactors. Each molecule provides a unique contribution to an assembly's energy landscape, which then governs the machine's function. To bridge discrete and continuous descriptions for a molecular machine, such as the ribosome, it is necessary to quantify the diffusive properties of functionally-relevant collective rearrangements. While bulk kinetic measurements rely on discrete state-of-the-art measurements of individual molecules, they require the quantification of their effects on a machine.
Medullary thyroid cancer ( MTC ) is a rare malignancy that accounts for up to 3–5% of thyroid cancers. It is derived from calcitonin-secreting para-follicular C cells and can arise in a familial ( 25% ) or sporadic pattern. Genes encoding the ret proto-oncogene ( RET ) and Ras ( RAS ) are commonly mutated in both familial and sporadic cases. Genetic and epigenetic alterations play important roles in the progression and prognosis of this disease, although some oncogenic mutations have been identified.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a vector-borne protozoal disease caused by the Leishmania donovani species complex. Asymptomatic infection may drive the epidemic and an important challenge is to reach the goal of joint V L elimination initiative taken by three Asian countries. In this part of the world a large number of individuals are symptomatic with positive serological test, polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) in individuals who are apparently in a healthy condition. Such individuals need much attention 
Genome instability is important for normal cellular survival and growth. Genome rearrangements are also associated with genetic diseases and the development of cancer. We previously demonstrated that the introduction of the repetitive retrotransposon Ty912 onto a nonessential chromosome arm of Saccharomyces cerevisiae led to increased genome instability predominantly due to the increased rates of formation of monocentric nonreciprocal translocations. In this study, we adapted Multiplex Ligation–dependent Pr Pr to adapt multiplex-ligation-dependent pr to increase the rate of translocation of nonciprociproverts onto non-essential chromosomes.
The association of two proteins is driven by a free energy funnel, determined by favorable interactions in some neighborhood of the native state. We describe a docking method based on stochastic global minimization of funnel-shaped energy functions in the space of rigid body motions ( SE ( 3 ) ) while accounting for flexibility of interface side chains. The method, called semi-definite programming-based underestimation ( SDU ), employs a general quadratic function to underestimate a set of local energy-function functions, which can be used to estimate the local state of a protein.
