Gene expression varies widely between individuals of a population, and regulatory change can underlie phenotypes of evolutionary and biomedical interest. A key question in the field is how DNA sequence variants impact gene expression, with most mechanistic studies to date focused on the effects of genetic change on regulatory regions upstream of protein-coding sequence. By contrast, the role of RNA 3′-end processing in regulatory variation remains largely unknown, owing in part to the challenge of identifying functional elements in untranslated regions. In this work, we conducted a genomic survey of transcript ends in lymphoblastoid cells from genetically distinct human individuals. Our analysis mapped the cis-regulatory architecture of transcripts, finding that transcript end positions did not fall randomly or preferentially flanked the locations of regulatory elements, including miRNA sites. The usage of these transcript length forms and motifs varied across human populations and polymorphisms in polyadenylation signals and other 2′ sequence elements were significant predictors of expression levels of the genes in which they lay. We established the effect of natural variation in RNA3′ end processing on transcriptional response to antigen stimulation. These results underscore the importance of two mechanisms at play in gene regulation: the usage and regulation of distinct RNA length form expression signals, which determine transcript fate.
The live attenuated simian immunodeficiency virus ( LASIV ) vaccine SIVΔnef is one of the most effective vaccines in inducing protection against wild-type lentiviral challenge, yet little is known about the mechanisms underlying its remarkable protective efficacy. Here, we exploit deep sequencing technology to deconstruct the CD8 T cell response, to identify the regions of immune pressure and viral escape, and to delineate the effect of epitope escape on the evolution. We demonstrate concomitant coevolution between the virus and the specificity of CD4 and T cells, resulting in an increased anentropic specificity, wider cumulative breadth and enhanced depth. Importantly, these findings render the vaccine, long the gold standard in HIV/SIV vaccine research, as a proof-of-concept vaccine.
Mucosal infections with Candida albicans belong to the most frequent forms of fungal diseases. Host protection is conferred by cellular immunity; however, the induction of antifungal immunity is not well understood. Using a mouse model of oropharyngeal candidiasis ( OPC ) we show that interleukin-1 receptor signaling is critical for host defense at the onset of infection through its impact on neutrophils at two levels. We demonstrate that both the recruitment of circulating blood leukocytes and the mobilization of newly generated neutreils from the bone marrow depended on IL- 1R signaling. Consistently, mice lacking the receptor showed impaired chemokine production and defective secretion of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( G-CSF ) in the circulation in response to infection. Strikingly, endothelial cells were identified as the primary cellular source of the cytokines. These data establish a new link between the host and granuleopoiesis. Together, we identified two complementary mechanisms coordinating the immune response in mucosa, which is essential for the protection of host from disease.
The Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( GPELF ) delivered more than 1. 9 billion treatments to nearly 600 million individuals via annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) of anti-filarial drugs ( albendazole, ivermectin, diethylcarbamazine ) to all at-risk for 4–6 years. Quantifying the resulting economic benefits of this significant achievement is important not only to justify the resources invested in the programme but also to more fully understand the Programme's overall impact on some of the poorest endemic populations.
Parkinson’s disease ( PD ) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder. GBA has recently drawn considerable attention because heterozygous mutations in this gene confer a high risk for sporadic PD. In addition, patients with type 1 GD also have an increased life-time risk of developing PD[5, 6]. Recent genetic studies have revealed a strong association between the loss of glucocerebrosidase ( GCase ) enzymatic activity and α-synuclein accumulation in axonal swellings containing autophagosomes. Here, we generated a nonsense mutant medaka that is completely deficient in the enzyme, and we found that this mutant is a viable neuronopathic GD model. Unexpectedly, disruption of the protein did not improve the life span, formation of axons, neuronal loss, or neuroinflammation. Taken together, the present study revealed the pathological phenotypes resembling human neuronopathy GD including infiltration of Gaucher cell-like cells into the brains, progressive neuronal losses, microgliosis. Detailed pathological findings represented lysosomal abnormalities in neurons and alpha-synthesizing protein accumulation, which is essential for the pathogenesis of neuronalopathy.
Listeria monocytogenes is a facultative intracellular pathogen capable of inducing a robust cell-mediated immune response to sub-lethal infection. The capacity of the bacterium to escape from the phagosome and enter the host cell cytosol is paramount for the induction of long-lived CD8 T cell–mediated protective immunity. Here, we show that the immune system discriminates between pathogens that reside in distinct subcellular locations, and via a MyD88- and IL-10-dependent mechanism, impacts the potency of this adaptive response. This suppression limited not only the adaptive responses to vacuole-confined Listeriolysin O ( LLO-Lm ), but also negated the innate response, leading to the rapid production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the generation of protective CD4 T cells. Our studies demonstrate that presence of microbes within a phosome can directly impact the cellular and adaptive immune responses by antagonizing the signaling pathways necessary for inflammation.
Primary open-angle glaucoma ( POAG ) is a complex inherited disorder with multigenic inheritance. A recent genome-wide association study found a significant genetic association ( rs10483727, odds ratio ( OR ) = 1. 32 ) at the SIX1/SIX6 locus, which is involved in ocular development and has been associated with the morphology of the optic nerve. In this study, we sequenced the coding and regulatory regions in a case-control dataset; we identified both common and rare coding variants, including five rare and one common variant, Asn141His. We also identified a novel variant within the genetic enhancer that appears to disrupt the regulation of this gene. Finally, our results, in combination with previous studies, lead us to hypothesize that the loss of function of these variants leads to a reduced number of retinal ganglion cells in the retina, thereby increasing the risk of developing vision loss.
In the human intestinal pathogen Clostridium difficile, flagella promote adherence to intestinal epithelial cells. Flagellar gene expression also indirectly impacts production of the glucosylating toxins, which are essential to diarrheal disease development in a host. Therefore, factors that regulate the expression of flgB operon will likely impact toxin production in addition to flaglla motility. Here, we report the identification and characterization of an additional cis-acting regulatory element that controls the phase variable production and secretion of these two virulence factors. We identify the tyrosine recombinase RecV that catalyzes inversion at the cwpV switch in both directions, and we provide evidence that gene regulation via the switch occurs post-transcription initiation and requires a C. diffiile-specific regulatory factor to destabilize or degrade the early gene mRNA when the cell wall protein is in the OFF orientation. Lastly, through mutagenesis and characterization of phase locked isolates we determined that the cytoplasmic toxin gene is also responsible for inversions at this switch. Together these findings indicate that transcriptional regulation and toxin secretion are subject to phase-variable expression and that these factors have both advantageous and detrimental effects during the course of infection.
Endosporulation is an ancient bacterial cell differentiation program that culminates with the formation of a highly resistant cell, the endospore. In the model organism Bacillus subtilis, gene expression in both the forespore and in the mother cell is governed by cell type-specific RNA polymerase sigma subunits. The sporulation factors control early stages of development, and are replaced, at later stages, by σG and ΃K, respectively. Starting with a protein present at the spore surface that is required for the preceding factor, this process involves cell-cell signaling pathways that operate at key morphological stages. Here, we have combined cytological and genetics methodologies, in parallel with use of fluorescence microscopy for single cell analysis, to define the sequence of sporulating events in C. difficile, an obligate anaerobe. Our results indicate reduced temporal segregation between the activities of the early and late Sigma factors and reduced requirement for specific cell types, many of which will be species- and possibly related to host colonization and transmission.
Protein phosphorylation is a common form of post-translational modification frequently used in nature to alter protein activity, for instance by changing the electrostatic properties of the protein or its spatial structure. Many multisite proteins are involved in regulatory processes that can benefit from the presence of bistability, hysteresis, or limit cycles, which require sufficiently nonlinear interactions in addition to the right type of feedback. In this paper we describe a simple mechanistic approach for modeling allosteric proteins. This approach is capable of describing ultrasensitive dynamics without introducing a large number of additional variables. As an application we analyze a newly discovered checkpoint signaling pathway in budding yeast that has been proposed to measure cell growth by monitoring signals generated at sites of plasma membrane growth. We show that the known components of this pathway can form a robust hysteretic switch. Our model presents several desirable qualities for a checkpoint, in particular a clear downstream signal when a sufficient polar bud growth has occurred.
Quorum sensing ( QS ) enables bacterial multicellularity and selective advantage for communicating populations. While genetic “switching” phenomena are a common feature, their mechanistic underpinnings have remained elusive. The interplay between circuit components and their regulation are intertwined and embedded. Observable phenotypes are complex and context dependent. We employed a combination of experimental work and mathematical models to decipher network connectivity and signal transduction in the autoinducer sensing system of E. coli. Negative and positive feedback mechanisms were examined by separating the network architecture into sub-networks. A new unreported negative feedback interaction was hypothesized and tested via a simple mathematical model. Also, the importance of the LsrR regulator and its determinant role, normally masked by interfering regulatory loops, were revealed. Our simple model allowed a more comprehensive understanding of gene regulation and led to the directed coordination of emergent behaviors.
Malaria burden remains high in the sub-Saharan region, where helminths are prevalent and where children are often infected with both types of parasites. Although the effect of schistosomiasis on malaria infection is evident, the impact of these co-infections is not clearly elucidated yet and the scarce findings are conflicting. In this study, we conducted a longitudinal survey in order to address this issue in an area where S. haematobium and P. falciparum are the main prevalent species of parasitic infections in children. We thus assessed the risk of plasmodium infection in school-age children living in two rural communities in Gabon. The overall prevalence on subject enrolment was 30%, 23% and 9% for both parasites, respectively, and was higher in Schisto-Makouké and Zilé-PK villages ( BM ) compared to the non-infected group ( 0. 61 vs. 20% ), with a significant delay of time-to first-malaria event only in a group of children aged from 6 to 10-years-old. Our results suggest that the presence of soil-transmitted parasites ( STH ) enhances susceptibility to developing malaria in young children but not in older children, suggesting a role for the parasite.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a potentially lethal disease caused by Leishmania donovani and L. infantum/chagasi. This disease is characterized by persistent infection of the spleen and by immunodeficiency during the chronic stage. The inflammatory response is mainly induced by the transcription factor IRF-5, which is responsible for the activation of several genes encoding key pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-6 and TNF. Here, we investigate the role of inflammation in regulating antigen-specific CD8+ T cell responses. Our data show that the inflammation induces HIF-1α in dendritic cells. Ablation of this cytokine in CD11c+ cells resulted into a higher frequency of short-lived effector cells ( SLEC ) and increased IL12 expression by splenic DCs. Moreover, mice with a targeted depletion of these cells had a significantly lower parasite burden. These results suggest that induction of inflammatory responses may represent an immune evasive mechanism adopted by parasites to establish persistent infections.
In the current context of high fatality rates associated with American visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ), the appropriate use of prognostic factors to identify patients at higher risk of unfavorable outcomes represents a potential tool for clinical practice. This systematic review brings together information reported in studies conducted in Latin America, on the potential predictors of adverse prognosis ( continued evolution of the initial clinical conditions of patients despite the implementation of treatment, independent of their occurrence of death ) and death. The limitations of this review were the lack of published studies and of existing knowledge. We propose possible improvements that might be incorporated into future research.
In Algeria, the treatment of visceral and cutaneous leishmanioses ( VL and CL ) has been and continues to be based on antimony-containing drugs. It is suspected that high drug selective pressure might favor the emergence of chemoresistant parasites. Although treatment failure is frequently reported during antimonial therapy of both CL and Leishmania drug resistance has never been thoroughly investigated in Algeria. In the present study, we analyzed a total of 106 isolates collected between 1976 and 2013 from humans, dogs, rodents, and phlebotomines and 18 collected from dogs in France. All the Algerian isolate were collected in 14 localities where leISHmaniasis is endemic. The 50% inhibitory concentrations ( IC50 ) of sodium stibogluconate ( the trivalent form of Antimony, Sb ( III ) ) and sodium-4-phosphate dehydrogenase ( P. perfilewi ) were determined in promastigotes and intramacrophages, respectively. Our results provide insight into the spatiotemporal dynamics of the infection of V. major, L. infantum ( syn: Le. tropica ), CL, or CL.
Crohn’s disease ( CD ) is a chronic inflammatory condition of diverse etiology. Exposure to foodborne pathogens causing acute gastroenteritis produces a long-term risk of CD well into the post-infectious period but the mechanistic basis for this ongoing relationship to disease onset is unknown. Here, we developed two novel models to study the comorbidity of acute diarrheal disease caused by Salmonella Typhimurium or Citrobacter rodentium in mice colonized with adherent-invasive Escherichia coli ( AIEC ), a bacterial pathobiont linked to CD. We show that disease activity is driven by the tissue-associated expansion of the resident E. coli, with an attendant increase in immunopathology, barrier defects, and delays in mucosal restitution following pathogen clearance. Our results suggest that the host environment favoring bacterial expansion at the intestinal surface is inflammatory in nature and that this particular bacterial bloom is of pathogenic significance in the disease.
In flowering plants, the egg and sperm cells are fertilized by one sperm cell each to form the embryo and the surrounding endosperm. The female gametophyte of Arabidopsis originates from a single haploid spore and is flanked by five accessory cells. Both gametic and accessory cell fates are vital for fertilization; however, mechanisms that underlie the formation of accessory versus egg cell fate are unknown. In the present study, we isolated the lachesis ( lis ) mutant which forms supernumerary egg cells, indicating that LIS is involved in a mechanism that prevents the key reproductive gamete cells from adopting the same fate. Our results indicate that a combinatorial mechanism operates to ensure maximum likelihood that the important reproductive cell is formed.
The role of footwear in protection against a range of Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) is gaining increasing attention. Better understanding of the behaviors that influence use of shoes will lead to improved ability to measure shoe use and will be important for those implementing footwear programs. Using the PRECEDE-PROCEED model we assessed social, behavioral, environmental, educational and ecological needs influencing whether and when children wear shoes in a rural highland Ethiopian community endemic for podoconiosis. Information was gathered from 242 respondents using focus groups, semi-structured interviews and extended case studies. Shoe-wearing norms were said to be changing, with going barefoot increasingly seen as ‘shameful’. Shoes were thought to confer dignity as well as protection from injury and cold. However, many practical and social barriers prevented the desire to wear them from being translated into practice. Limited financial resources meant that people were neither able to purchase more than one pair of shoe to ensure their longevity nor afford shoes of their preferred quality. As a result of this limited access, shoes were typically preserved for special occasions and might not be provided for children until they reached a certain age. We identified several barriers to shoe wearing that are amenable to intervention.
The pseudorabies virus ( PRV ) Us9 protein plays a central role in targeting viral capsids and glycoproteins to axons of dissociated sympathetic neurons in the mammalian nervous system. However, the mechanism by which this occurs has not been elucidated. In this report, we determined that the axonal sorting of viral proteins is critical for efficient targeting of structural proteins and to directional spread of the virus from pre-synaptic to post-aptic neurons.
Genetically identical cells exhibit extensive phenotypic variation, even under constant and benign conditions. This so-called nongenetic heterogeneity has important clinical implications: within tumors and microbial infections, cells show significant differences in growth rate and in susceptibility to drugs or stress. The budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, shows a similar form of growth and stress tolerance. Using genetic and chemical perturbations, combined with high-throughput single-cell assays, we show here that heterogeneity in intracellular cyclic AMP ( cAMP ) levels acting through the conserved Ras/cAMP/protein kinase A ( PKA ) pathway and its target transcription factors, Msn2 andMsn4, underlies this heterogeneity. Heterogeneity in CAMP corresponds to slower growth, as shown by direct comparison of the concentration in subpopulations enriched for slower vs. faster growing cells. Concordantly, an endogenous reporter of this pathway’s activity correlates with growth in individual cells, suggesting a major role for the pathway in this process and a residual benefit of slow growth. Our results shed light on how populations—including populations of pathogens or cancer cells—adapt to complex, changing environments by making them more uniformly susceptible to treatment.
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ), an alphavirus and member of the Togaviridae family, is capable of causing severe febrile disease in humans. In December of 2013 the Asian Lineage of CHikV spread from the Old World to the Americas, spreading rapidly throughout the New World. Given this new emergence in naïve populations we used deep-sequencing technologies coupled with well-established bioinformatics pipelines to characterize the viral genetic diversity present in infected individuals. We observed a diverse range of minority variants present at various levels in the population. Furthermore, we found that overall diversity was dramatically reduced after single passages in cell lines. Finally, a novel 3’ untranslated region ( UTR ) structure, not previously found in nature, led to increased replication in insect cells. These studies highlight the need to continue viral diversity surveillance over time as this epidemic evolves in order to understand the evolutionary potential of this virus.
MTOR signaling is a central pathway that controls cell metabolism, growth, proliferation and survival. Clinically the mTOR pathway is implicated in human diseases including tumor formation, obesity, epilepsy, autism and neurodegeneration. Here, we identify UBTOR, a previously unannotated gene as a functional player in regulating cell growth and m TOR signaling. We first show reduction of Ubtor expression levels in cultured hippocampal neurons and PC12 cells promotes neurite outgrowth. Then we show that the inhibition of ubtor gene promotes tumor growth in a zebrafish model. Together, our results demonstrate how the protein is involved in the regulation of cellular growth.
Trypanosoma brucei is the causative agent of the fatal human African trypanomiasis ( HAT ), also known as sleeping sickness, and the economically devastating disease Nagana in cattle. The life cycle of this parasite comprises an insect stage ( procyclic stage ) and a mammalian stage. Although protein-protein interactions are highly informative about protein function, a global map of protein interactions and complexes is still lacking for these important human parasites. Here, benefiting from in-depth biochemical fractionation, we systematically interrogated the co-complex interactions of more than 3354 protein groups in the procycleic life stage of Trypanozoan parasite. Using a rigorous methodology, our analysis led to identification of 128 high-confidence complexes encompassing 716 proteins groups, including 635 protein group that lacked experimental annotation. These complexes correlate well with known pathways as well as for proteins that have been previously uncharacterized. We validated the functions of several novel proteins associated with the RNA-editing machinery, identifying a candidate potentially involved in mitochondrial post-transcriptional regulation. Our data provide a reliable resource for further characterization and further experimental leads. To our knowledge, the presented results in this study are available at: www. TrypsNetDB. org.
Tuberculosis is commonly considered a chronic lung disease, however, extrapulmonary Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection can occur in any organ. Despite the fact that lymph nodes ( LN ) are among the most common sites of extrapulimonary tuberculosis infection, and thoracic LNs are frequently infected in humans, bacterial dynamics and the effect of Mt bacilli on lymph node structure and function are relatively unstudied. Here, we used PET CT imaging to track the bacterial burden of Ln-infected cynomolgus and rhesus macaques. We found that the presence of live bacteria was associated with different trajectories ( increasing, maintaining, decreasing in PET activity over time ) even within the same animal. Interestingly, compared to lung granulomas that form in lNs lack B cell-rich tertiary lymphoid structures, disrupt L N structure by pushing out T cells and B cells, introduce large numbers of macrophages that can serve as niches for Mtbs, destroy normal vasculature. Our data support that LNNs are not only places of antigen presentation and immune activation during infection but also serve to be important sites for persistence of significant numbers M. tuberculosis.
Microsporidia are fungi-related intracellular pathogens that may infect virtually all animals, but are poorly understood. The free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has recently become a model host for studying these organisms, through the identification of its natural microspora pathogen Nematocida parisii. However, it was unclear how widespread and diverse these infections are in the wild. In this study, we describe the isolation and culture of 47 species of the genus C. elegan, and describe and name six new species in this genus. Our sampling and phylogenetic analysis further identify two subclades that are genetically distinct from the novel genus Enteropsectra and Pancytospora. Interestingly, these two genera belong to the main clade that includes human pathogens. We also show that N. ausubeli fails to strongly induce the transcription of genes induced by other species, suggesting it has evolved mechanisms to prevent induction of this host response.
Chemokine receptors, a subclass of G protein coupled receptors ( GPCRs ), play essential roles in the human immune system, they are involved in cancer metastasis as well as in HIV-infection. A plethora of studies show that homo- and heterodimers or even higher order oligomers of CXCR4 and CCR5 modulate receptor function. In addition, membrane cholesterol affects the receptor dimerization at atomistic resolution. This work provides a first comprehensive structural overview over the complex interaction network between chemokines receptors and indicates how the homodimerization and the interaction with the membrane environment diversifies the function of closely related receptors.
Systemic leishmaniasis has been known to present with prolonged fever, hepatosplenomegaly and wasting. Beside this classical form, a sub-clinical form has also been identified. It is described with either one or two of the above symptoms missing; other findings have been reported instead, such as lymphadenopathy and anemia. In this report, we reveal a third unsuspected form which we are referring to as “atypical”. Patients suspected to be immune-deficient were referred to our immunology specialized laboratory to study some aspects of their immune functions ( not normally covered in the general laboratory ). Multiple specialized tests were performed, including microscopic examinations using appropriate stains, and mainly cultures of biopsies on several types of specialized media. 19·4% of 160 patients were found to have close to normal laboratory profiles, but exhibited dysfunctional macrophages laden with Leishmania parasites. Findings like the ones we obtained allowed us to uncover the presence of patients with an atypic form of systemic leISHMANiasis, which presents with symptoms masquarading a condition in which the immune system is non functional. This predisposes patients to recurrent secondary infections resulting in clinical pictures with a great variety of signs and symptoms.
The millions of mutations and polymorphisms that occur in human populations are potential predictors of disease, of our reactions to drugs, and of age-related conditions such as impaired brain and cardiovascular functions. However, predicting the phenotypic consequences and eventual clinical significance of a sequence variant is not an easy task. Computational approaches have found perturbation of conserved amino acids to be a useful criterion for identifying variants likely to cause disease. In order to investigate the potential of this approach, we have assembled a unique collection of known disease-causing variants from OMIM and the Human Genome Mutation Database ( HGMD ) and used them to identify and characterize pairs of sequence variants. Our analyses demonstrate that the locations of variants are correlated in paralogous human proteins. Moreover, if one member of the variant-pair is a partner of one of its partners, its partner is likely also a co-infection. Thus, information about variants-pairs can be used for purposes of in-silico polymorphism prioritization and provide a suite of candidates for further diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.
The malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum is the leading cause of fatal malaria and is responsible for the death of over 400, 000 people annually, primarily in sub-Saharan Africa. The host environment changes dramatically in severe malaria, but the extent to which the parasite responds to—or is selected by—this environment remains unclear. Here, we used RNA sequencing ( RNAseq ) to analyse gene expression in 44 parasite isolates that caused severe and uncomplicated malaria in Papuan patients. We found that these parasites had decreased glycolysis without activation of compensatory pathways; altered chromatin structure and probably transcriptional regulation through decreased histone methylation; reduced surface expression of PfEMP1; and down-regulated transcription of multiple chaperone proteins. These findings will inform efforts to identify vaccine targets for severe disease and also indicate how parasites adapt to their environment.
There are good reasons for believing that development of an effective preventive vaccine against HIV-1 is going to be a very difficult task. We used adeno-associated virus ( AAV ) vector intramuscularly to deliver anti-SIV monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) in IgG1 form to rhesus monkeys. Persisting levels of delivered mAb as high as 270 μg/ml were achieved. However, host antibody responses to the delivered antibody were observed in 9 of the 12 monkeys and these appeared to limit the concentration of antibody that could be obtained. This is reflected in the wide range of dosing doses that were used. Following repeated, marginal dose, intravenous challenge with the difficult-to-neutralize strain SIVmac239, the six monkeys were able to overcome the challenge virus. Our results demonstrate the continued promise of this approach for the prevention of HIV infection in people.
The assumption of linear response of proteins to thermal noise or structural perturbations, such as ligand binding or detachment, is broadly used in the studies of protein dynamics. Conformational motions in proteins are traditionally analyzed in terms of normal modes and experimental data on thermal fluctuations in such macromolecules is also usually interpreted. Here, we have chosen two important protein motors — myosin V and kinesin KIF1A — and performed numerical investigations of their conformational relaxation properties within the coarse-grained elastic network approximation. We have found that the linearity assumption is deficient for ligands-induced conformation motions and can even be violated for characteristic fluctuations. The deficiency is particularly pronounced in Kif1 A where the normal mode description fails completely in describing functional mechanochemical motions. These results indicate that important assumptions of the theory of dynamics may need to be reconsidered. Neither a single normal or a superposition of such modes yields an approximation of strongly nonlinear dynamics, as suggested by recent single-molecule experiments.
Endocytosis encompasses a number of distinct internalization pathways with clathrin-mediated receptors and their bound ligands being the best understood. Caveolins and cavins are crucial components of caveolae, specialized microdomains that also constitute an endocytic route. However, the molecular mechanisms and functional relevance of these interactions are unclear. In this study, we show that specific caveolar proteins are independently acting negative regulators of the CLIC/GEEC pathway. We show for the first time a role for specific cavin-1 ( CAV1 ), but not Cavin2 or Cavins-4, in regulating the early endosomal compartment pathway, which constitutes a high capacity route for bulk fluid intake in fibroblasts. Our studies reveal complex crosstalk between the two membrane systems at multiple levels.
Two-component signaling systems are ubiquitous in bacteria, Archaea and plants and play important roles in sensing and responding to environmental stimuli. To propagate a signaling response the typical system employs a sensory histidine kinase that phosphorylates a Receiver ( REC ) domain on a conserved aspartate residue. Although it is known that some REC domains are missing this Asp residue, it remains unclear as to how many of these divergent REC domain exist, what their functional roles are and how they are regulated in the absence of the conserves Aspartates. Here we have compiled all REC-containing RECs missing their phospho-accepting Asperate ( AsP ) residue and renamed them as the AsPartate-Less Receiver. Our data show that ALRs are surprisingly common and are enriched for when attached to more rare effector outputs. Analysis of our informatics and the available ALR atomic structures, combined with structural, biochemical and genetic data, suggest a functional consolidation into more rarely observed specialized roles such as secondary messenger signaling and RNA-binding, while largely retaining the canonical post-phosphorylation mechanisms and dimeric interface.
Oncolytic herpes simplex viruses ( oHSVs ) show efficacy in clinical trials and practice. Most of them gain cancer-specificity from deletions/mutations in genes that counteract the host immune response, and grow selectively in cancer cells defective in anti-viral response. Because of the deletion/mutation, they are frequently attenuated or over-attenuated. In this study, we developed next-generation HER2-retargeted, fully-virulent OHSV in immunocompetent mice. Their safety profile was very high. Both the unarmed R-LM113 and the IL-12-armed R115 inhibited the tumor microenvironment, i. e. induced immunomodulatory cytokines, including IFNγ, T-bet which promoted Th1 polarization. All the mice that did not die from the primary treated tumors, irrespective of which virus was employed, were protected from a second contralateral tumor, providing additional evidence for an abscopal immunotherapeutic effect.
Human adenovirus 5 ( Ad5 ) -based HIV vaccine clinical trials, where excess HIV infections were observed in some vaccine recipients, have highlighted the importance of understanding host responses to vaccine vectors and the HIV susceptibility of vector-specific CD4 T cells in HIV vaccination. Our recent study reported that human HIV infection of target cells induced by vaccination with ALVAC, a canarypox viral vector tested in the Thai trial RV144, is readily susceptible to HIV. Here we further investigated the viral status of human CD8 T-cell responses induced in PBMC, as compared to ad5-infected cells. We showed that while HIV-induced CD6 T cell responses were readily vulnerable to both R5 and X4 HIV in vitro, the ALvAC- and Ad4-expressed CD7-T cells were substantially less susceptible. Of interest, we also found that the different viral vectors induced distinct HIV responses, which were associated with the reduced surface expression of HIV entry co-receptors CCR5, CXCR4 and Tetherin on these cells, respectively. These data provide strong evidence that different HIV vaccines have distinct anti-vector responses.
Mammalian females transcriptionally silence one of their two X chromosomes within each female somatic cell – a process called X inactivation. The specific X chromosome silenced exhibits considerable diversity among species, yet the underlying evolutionary processes that might account for this observed diversity remain unclear. We present a theoretical population genetic analysis of the evolution of X-linked genes and specifically consider how conditions of dominance, linkage, recombination, and sex-differential selection each influence evolutionary trajectories of gene expression variation. Our results indicate that a single, critical interaction between allelic dominance ( i. e., deleterious to females but beneficial to males ) can select for a broad and continuous range of male and paternally derived X chromosomal copies. Evolutionary transitions from PXI to RXI generally increase mean relative female fitness at the expense of decreased male fitness.
Zinc-finger antiviral protein ( ZAP ) is a host factor that restricts the infection of many viruses mainly through RNA degradation, translation inhibition and innate immune responses. However, so far, only one flavivirus, yellow fever virus, has been reported to be Zap-resistant. In this study, we investigated the anti-ZAP potential of human zAP and found that it was essential for RNA targeting and anti JEV activity. We also identified the 3′-UTR, especially in the region with dumbbell structures and high content of CG dinucleotide, as the target of JE infection. JEF infection was blocked by overexpression, and depletion of endogenous JAP enhanced JEE replication. Z AP hampered JJEV translation and targeted viral RNA for 3-5′ RNA exosome-mediated degradation. The zinc-protein motifs of this protein were essential to target and inhibit viral translation. Our findings suggest that Jev may act as an intrinsic antivirus through specific RNA binding to fight against JEN virus infection and may be a target for antivirals.
Rift Valley fever virus ( RVFV ) is a major human and animal pathogen associated with severe disease including hemorrhagic fever or encephalitis. The MP-12 vaccine is available to researchers through the Special Immunizations Program at the US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases ( USAMRIID ) as part of an on-going clinical trial ( www. clinicaltrials. gov ). To date, there is little detailed data directly comparing the host response to infection with wild-type or vaccine strains of RVV and correlation with viral pathogenesis. Here we characterized clinical and systemic immune responses to virus challenge in the C57BL/6 mouse. Animals infected with live-attenuated vaccine strain ZH501 survived productive viral infection, causing depletion of lymphocytes and platelets and elicited a strong, systemic cytokine response which correlated with high virus titers and significant tissue pathology. Lymphopenia, platelet depletion, and increased G-CSF production were indicators of disease onset, but with little pathology indicating meningoencephalitis, which was supported by histological data. These data suggest that the pathogenic virus seen in mice is driven primarily by an unregulated host inflammatory response that results in significant loss of liver function and development of neurologic disease.
Chemotherapeutic resistance in triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) has brought great challenges to the improvement of patient survival. The mechanisms of taxane chemoresistance have not been well investigated. Here, we investigated the role of C-C motif chemokine ligand 20 ( CCL20 ) in regulating the self-renewal and maintenance of cancer stem cells ( BCSCs ) or breast cell stem-like cells through p65 nuclear factor kappa B ( NF-κB ) -mediated activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) pathway, significantly increasing the frequency and cell-extrinsic resistance of BC SCs. Moreover, C CL20-promoted NF -KB activation increased ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 1 ( ABCB1 ) /multidrug resistance 1/MDR1 expression, leading to cell invasion through basement membrane protein ( Matrigel ) and anchorage-independent growth. Our results suggest that CCR20 can be a novel predictive marker for taxANE response, and the blockade of its downstream pathway might reverse the cancer progression with worse prognosis.
Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite that can infect virtually all nucleated cells in warm-blooded animals. When a tachyzoite invades a host cell, it invaginates the host plasma membrane to form the parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ), within which it replicates. The PV membrane is a barrier that the parasite must circumvent in order to effectively hijack and acquire essential nutrients. In this study, we report the identification of novel membrane proteins that are essential for effector translocation. We previously showed that TgMYR1, which is cleaved into two fragments, localizes to the PV space and is required for GRA transport. This block blocks the transport of other effectors, consistent with a translocon-based model of effectOR transport in a mouse model.
Papillomaviruses ( PV ) are medically important pathogens especially as specific genotypes carry a high risk of progression to cancer, most commonly of the uterine cervix and oropharynx. Because PVs have limited protein coding capacity in their typically 8 kilobases ( kb ) genome, these viruses do not encode a DNA polymerase and must rely on host DNA replication factors. As a nuclear double stranded DNA plasmid, the PV genome replicative program consists of three stages: initial amplification from a single genome upon infection to a few copies per cell, a cell cycle linked maintenance phase, and a differentiation dependent late stage where the genome is amplified to thousands of copies. Involvement of ORC or other pre-replication complex factors has not been described. We report that human HPV ( HPV ) and bovine PV ( BPV-1 ) E2 proteins bind to and recruit the E1 DNA helicase at the viral origin. Depletion of both proteins enhanced PV replication in a transient replication model and in keratinocytes stably maintaining viral episomes, while there was no effect on copy number in the cell line with integrated HPV genomes. Consistent with this, occupancy of these two proteins increased following the silencing of their co-immunoprecipitation. These data imply that the HPV/BPV/ORC2 complex is not necessary for activation of PV origin recognition and instead suppresses the replication program.
Brucellosis is considered to be one of the most common zoonoses globally, and Central Asia remains a Brucella hotspot. The World Health Organization classifies the disease as a neglected disease that is rarely in the spotlight for research and mainly affects poor, marginalized people. Urban and peri-urban farming is a common practice in many low-income countries and it increases the incomes of families that are often restrained by limited economic resources. However, there is also a concern that the growing number of people and livestock living close together in these areas will increase the transmission of pathogens such as the genus. In this study, we investigated the presence of DNA in bovine milk in Dushanbe, Tajikistan. We found that DNA was detected in 10. 3% of 564 cow milk samples by IS711-based real-time PCR. This finding is concerning because consumption of unpasteurized dairy products is common in this region. Furthermore, the serology and PCR results were similar in all seropositive cows, but the rpoB gene was most likely infected with B. melitensis. These results highlight the need for implementing complementary diagnostic strategies to detect false serological negative individuals.
Chromosome and genome stability are important for normal cell function as instability often correlates with disease and dysfunction of DNA repair mechanisms. The pathogenic fungus Zymoseptoria tritici has as many as eight accessory chromosomes, which are highly unstable during meiosis and mitosis, transcriptionally repressed, show enrichment of repetitive elements, and enrichment with heterochromatic histone methylation marks, e. g., trimethylation of H3 lysine 9 or lYSine 27. We used whole genome sequencing, ChIP-seq and RNA sequencing to compare changes in genome and chromatin structure and differences in gene expression between mutant and wildtype strains. By combining experimental evolution and genomic analyses to determine the impact of these deletions on chromosome stability and dynamics, we shed light on the roles of histones in the hemi-biotrophic wheat pathogen that reproduces both asexually and sexually.
Prompt post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) is essential for preventing the fatal onset of disease in persons exposed to rabies. Unfortunately, life-saving vaccines and biologicals are often neither accessible nor affordable, particularly to the poorest sectors of society who are most at risk and upon whom the largest burden of rabie falls. Increasing accessibility, reducing costs and preventing delays in delivery of Pep should therefore be prioritized. Here, we present a framework for comparing the cost-effectiveness of different PPP vaccination regimens and evaluated their relative cost and benefits to bite victims and healthcare providers. We found that switching from intramuscular ( IM ) administration to equally efficacious intradermal ( ID ) delivery was shown to result in significant savings in the volume of vaccine required to treat the same number of patients, which could mitigate vaccine shortages, and would dramatically reduce the costs of implementing PPEP.
Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite that replicates in mammalian cells within a parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ) that does not fuse with any host organelles. One mechanism developed by the parasite for nutrient acquisition is the attraction of hosts to the PV. In this study, we examined the exploitation of host lipid droplets ( LD ), ubiquitous fat storage structures in the host cell. We show that host LD is reduced in host cells that are depleted of LD, or impaired in TAG lipolysis or fatty acid catabolism. Exogenous addition of oleic acid stimulates LD biogenesis and results in an overaccumulation of neutral lipids in very large LD inside the parasites. To access LD-derived lipidids, parasite intercepts and internalizes within the mammalian PV the LD that remains associated with Rab7, which becomes wrapped by an intravacuolar network of membranes ( IVN ). Mutant parasites lacking a phospholipase A2 are less proficient in salvaging lipid from parasite LD and, in case of excess, storage in its own LD. Interestingly, gavage of parasites with lipid-rich reservoirs unveils, for the first time, the presence of endocytic-like structures containing lipidic material originating from their PV lumen.
Liver flukes are the causative agents of serious human and livestock infections many of which have been considered neglected tropical diseases in urgent need for research efforts. Triclabendazole is the first choice drug since it is effective in killing juvenile and mature parasites, but resistance is emerging in several countries. This highlights the urgency of finding novel strategies and target molecules for developing innovative drugs to treat fluke infections. Cysteine proteases play essential roles in numerous protozoan ( like Trypanosoma cruzi and Plasmodium falciparum ) and other helminth parasites and are important targets for antiparasitic chemotherapy. We searched a library of forty flavonoid derivatives for inhibitors of key stage specific Fasciola hepatica cathepsins. Chalcones substituted with phenyl and naphtyl groups emerged as good inhibitors, interacting more frequently with two putative binding sites within the active site cleft of the enzymes. One of these compounds, C34, tightly bounds to juvenile specific FhCL3 with an IC50 of 5. 6 μM and is highly active towards the juvenile enzyme reducing larval ability to penetrate the gut wall and decreasing NEJ´s viability in vitro. These findings open new avenues for the development of novel agents to control Fluke infection.
The visual system transmits information about fast and slow changes in light intensity through separate neural pathways. We used in vivo imaging to investigate how bipolar cells transmit these signals to the inner retina. Our results show that the volume of the synaptic terminal is an intrinsic property that contributes to different temporal filters. Individuals transmit through multiple terminals varying in size, but smaller terminals generate faster and larger calcium transients to trigger vesicle release with higher initial gain, followed by more profound adaptation. Smaller terminals transmitted higher stimulus frequencies more effectively. Modeling global calcium dynamics in the presynaptic compartments contributed directly to all these differences in response dynamics.
Understanding the basic mechanisms and pathologies of the brain’s synaptic networks will require advances in our quantitative understanding of structural, molecular, and functional diversity within the vast populations of individual synapses that define those networks. Fluorescence microscopy ( FM ) combines exquisite molecular discrimination capacities with high speed and low cost, while rigorous discrimination between synaptic and non-synaptic fluorescence signals is challenging. In contrast, EM remains the gold standard for reliable identification of a synapse, but offers only limited molecular segregation and is slow and costly. To develop and test single-Synapse image analysis methods, we have used datasets from conjugate array tomography ( cAT ), which provides voxel-conjugate FM and EM ( annotated ) images. We report a novel unsupervised probabilistic method for detection and molecular profiling from multiplex FM ( muxFM ) image data and evaluate this method both by comparison to EM gold-standard annotation and by examining its capacity to reproduce known important features of cortical synaptic distributions. This approach opens the door to data-driven discovery of new types and their density.
Zinc is a vital trace element crucial for the proper function of some 3, 000 cellular proteins. Specifically, zinc is essential for key physiological processes including nucleic acid metabolism, regulation of gene expression, signal transduction, cell division, immune- and nervous system functions, wound healing, and apoptosis. Consequently, impairment of zinc homeostasis disrupts key cellular functions resulting in various human pathologies. Mammalian zinc transport proceeds via two transporter families ZnT and ZIP. However, the detailed mechanism of action of the transporter, which is responsible for vesicular zinc accumulation and zinc secretion into breast milk during lactation, is currently unknown. In the current study, we expanded our previous findings and computed pKa values for titratable residues at the putative binding site and calculated zinc binding free-energies. Our computations were integrated into a free energy landscape and we constructed a mechanistic model for zinc transporter. Bafilomycin A1, a specific inhibitor of vacuolar-type proton ATPase ( V-ATPase ) which alkalizes acidic Vesicles, abolished the anti-zinc antiport; this phenomenon was reversed in the presence of TPEN. Finally, based on computational energy calculations, our findings reveal an important aspect of this transporter and expand our understanding of its function.
Replication fork integrity, which is essential for the maintenance of genome stability, is monitored by checkpoint-mediated phosphorylation events. In yeast, 14-3 proteins are able to bind proteins and were shown to play an undefined role under DNA replication stress. Here, we identify a yeast protein, Exonuclease 1 ( Exo1 ), as an in vivo interaction partner of the protein. We show that 14+3–deficient yeast cells fail to induce Mec1–dependent Exoxynucleotide depletion ( HU ) and accumulate exo-dependent ssDNA gaps at stalled replication forks. This leads to persistent checkpoint activation and exacerbated recovery defects. Moreover, using DNA bi-dimensional electrophoresis, our data demonstrate that the 14L3 protein promotes fork progression and stability under limiting nucleotide concentrations.
The role of plasmacytoid dendritic cells ( pDC ) in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) infection and pathogenesis remains unclear. We have developed a monoclonal antibody that specifically and efficiently depletes human pdc in all lymphoid organs in the humanized mouse model. This antibody is able to significantly inhibit the induction of IFN-I and interferon-stimulated genes ( ISGs ) during acute and chronic phases of HIV infection. Our findings show that the highly pathogenic CCR5/CXCR4-dual tropic HLA-DR+CD38+ CD8+ T cells and CD4 T-cell depletion are the major contributors to the induced depletion of human leukocytes, including human immune cells, in spite of the increased viral replication.
Sulforaphane ( SFN ), a natural product recognized for its health benefits, is produced in cruciferous vegetables after mechanical damage, causes admixing of glucoraphanin with the enzyme myrosinase. It reaches various tissues after consumption where it maintains biological function and carries virus into restricted compartments like the brain and spinal cord. Here we show for the first time that the expression of the transcription factor nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) blocks HIV infection in primary macrophages but not in secondary T cells. We further found that, unlike the type I interferon-induced cellular anti-viral proteins SAMHD1 and MX2, the block is reversible and highlights a novel way to trigger this inhibition.
Geohelminth infections are common in rural western Kenya, but risk factors and effects among pregnant women are not clear. We conducted a community-based cross-sectional survey to assess the prevalence of and to identify the impact on pregnancy, malaria, and birth outcome. Among 390 participants who provided a stool sample and a single fecal sample, 76. 2% were infected with at least one geohelmineth. Infection was associated with the use of an unprotected water source ( adjusted odds ratio [AOR] 1. 8, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0. 3–3. 0 ) and the lack of treatment of drinking water ( AOR 1. 8 ). A hookworm infection was less likely to have malaria parasitemia compared to women without A. lumbricoides, unlike other gravidity groups.
Mycolactone is a polyketide-derived macrolide produced by the skin pathogen Mycobacterium ulcerans, with cytotoxic, analgesic and immunomodulatory properties. The latter were recently shown to result from the Sec61-dependent production of pro-inflammatory mediators by immune cells. Here, we investigated whether the neuroinflammation that is associated with chronic pain in vivo can be explained by its beneficial effects on the peripheral nervous system. Sensory neurons, Schwann cells and microglia were isolated from mice for ex vivo assessment of the cell cytokine production. In all cell types studied, prolonged exposure to prolonged ( >48h ) exposure induced significant cell death at concentrations >10 ng/ml. Within the first 24h treatment, nanomolar concentrations of mycolactedone efficiently suppressed the cytokines and chemokines, without affecting their viability. While this treatment failed to prevent injury-induced neuro inflammation, it decreased significantly the local output of inflammatory molecules without inducing detectable cytoxicity. Since these cells critically contribute to neuro inflammation and are critical players of pain perception, transmission and maintenance, our work suggests that the inflammatory responses of peripheral blood leukocytes may, at least partially, be due to their anti–inflammatory properties, which may explain the analgesia that we describe here.
Human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ), a lethal disease induced by Tryposoma brucei gambiense, has a range of clinical outcomes in its human host in West Africa: an acute form progressing rapidly to second stage, spontaneous self-cure and individuals able to regulate parasitaemia at very low levels, have all been reported from endemic foci. In order to test if this clinical diversity is influenced by host genetic determinants, the association between candidate gene polymorphisms and the clinical outcome was investigated in populations from the active Foci in Guinea. Samples were collected from 425 individuals; comprising of 232 cases, 79 subjects with long lasting positive and specific serology but negative parasitology and 114 endemic controls. Genotypes of 28 SNPs in eight genes passed quality control and were used for an association analysis. IL6 rs1818879 allele A was associated with a lower risk of progressing from latent infection to active disease. MIF rs12483859 C allele seems be associated more with latent infections ( p = 0. 0077, OR = 1. 86, CI95 = [1. 18–2. 95], BONF =. 2157 ). We confirmed earlier observations that APOL1 G2 allele ( DEL ) is an increased risk. The results of this study enhance our understanding of host-parasite interactions and, ultimately, may lead to the development of new control tools.
South Asia has a significant amount of genetic diversity due to considerable intergroup differences in culture and language. There have been numerous reports on the genetic structure of Asian Indians, although these have mostly relied on genotyping microarrays or targeted sequencing of the mitochondria and Y chromosomes. The Singapore Sequencing Indian Project ( SSIP ) aims to perform whole-genome sequencing with a target coverage of 30X as part of Phase 1 of 1, 000 Genomes Project. In this study, we compared samples from the Singapore sequencing Malay Project and populations in a well-defined population, as with the SSMP. We found that the two archaic hominins ( Denisovan, Neanderthal ) were more closely related to the South Asian populations than the Europeans, and we identified higher ancient admixture in East Asians.
Burkholderia pseudomallei is intrinsically resistant to aminoglycosides and macrolides, mostly due to AmrAB-OprA efflux pump expression. We investigated the molecular mechanisms of resistance exhibited by Thai strains 708a, 2188a and 3799a. qRT-PCR revealed absence of amrB transcripts and greatly reduced levels in these strains. Serial passage on increasing gentamicin concentrations yielded two different mutants that became simultaneously resistant. The resistance of these mutants could not be obtained with wild-type strains K96243 and 1710b, respectively. Whole genome sequencing and PCR analysis showed that deletion of several putative virulence genes, including the anaerobic arginine deiminase pathway and secreted type 1 fimbriae, was associated with a large chromosome 1 deletion ( 131 kb and 141 kb compared to strains 1601b and 1801a ). This deletion not only removed the genes for malleobactin and cobalamin synthesis, but also the entire gene clusters. Other genes deleted included the aero-cytochrome P450 pathway, putatively type-1-fibromatidase pathways, the chitinases pathway.
During eukaryotic development, the induction of a lineage-specific transcription factor typically drives differentiation of multipotent progenitor cells, while repressing that of alternative lineages. This process is often mediated by some extracellular signaling molecules, such as cytokines that can bind to cell surface receptors, leading to activation and/or repression of transcription factors. We explored the early stage of cell differentiation to delineate the interplay between cell-to-cell signaling components unveiled in Th1 versus Th2 differentiation. Contrary to mutually exclusive expression of antagonistic genes, we observed their ubiquitous co-expression in individual cells at high levels that are distinct from basal-level expression during lineage priming. These results suggest that during early differentiation process CD4 T cells acquire a mixed Th-1/Th2 state, instructed by intracellular cytokine signaling.
To function over a range of temperatures, poikilotherms must make adaptive adjustments to their physiology. For example, adaptation to cold in Drosophila correlates with changes in the phospholipid composition of cellular membranes, favoring a higher abundance of shorter and/or unsaturated fatty acids to maintain membrane fluidity. The paqr-2 mutant is unable to adapt to growth at 15°C, which is close to the lowest temperature at which this species can be propagated. Here, we used an unbiased forward genetic approach in which we screened randomly mutagenized worm populations to isolate and then characterize mutations that suppress the cold adaptation defect. We then show genetic evidence that these suppressors are phosphatidylcholines, sbp-1 and Δ9-desaturases, and that low concentrations of detergents that increase the levels of saturated fatty acid can rescue the pcyt-3 mutant.
Herpes viruses are prevalent and well characterized human pathogens. Despite extensive study, much remains to be learned about the structure of the genome packaging and release machinery in the capsids of these large and complex double-stranded DNA viruses. In tailed bacteriophage, which share a common evolutionary origin with herpesvirus, the viral genome exits from the virus particle through a portal and is transferred into the host cell by a complex apparatus ( i. e. the tail ) located at the portal vertex. Here we use electron cryo-tomography of human herpes simplex type-1 virions to reveal a previously unsuspected feature that extends across the virion tegument layer. The location of this assembly suggests that it plays a role in genome release into nuclei, is also important for virus architecture.
Parasitic helminths evade, skew and dampen human immune responses through numerous mechanisms. Such effects will likely have consequences for HIV-1 transmission and disease progression. Here we show that soluble egg antigen ( SEA ) from Schistosoma mansoni can potently bind to DC-SIGN, a lectin known to strongly support trans-infection, whilst having no effect on direct infection of CD4+ T-lymphocytes. We further demonstrate that SEA, specifically through kappa-5, is able to modulate HIV infection and cytokine/chemokine production in vitro. This is not observed for DCs exposed to SEA while maturing under Th1 or Th2/Th2 ( Tmix ) promoting conditions. However, the infection profile of T cells infected with SEA was not associated with down-modulation of CCR5 cell surface expression, but additionally correlated with reduced viral outgrowth.
Neuronal stimulation causes ∼30% shrinkage of the extracellular space ( ECS ) between neurons and surrounding astrocytes in grey and white matter under experimental conditions. Despite its possible implications for a proper understanding of basic aspects of potassium clearance as well as water transport processes, the phenomenon remains unexplained. Here we present a dynamic model that accounts for current experimental data related to the shrinkaging phenomenon in wild-type and in gene knockout individuals. We find that neuronal release of calcium and uptake of sodium during stimulation, sodium and chloride in passive channels, action of a Na/K/ATPase pump, and osmotically driven transport of water through the hydroglia-neuron interaction seem to be critical determinants for generating the observed quantitative levels of membrane space. The model framework appears sufficiently detailed and constrained to guide future key experiments and pave the way for more comprehensive astroglias–neurons interaction models for normal and pathophysiological situations.
Eukaryotic genomes contain significant amounts of transposons and repetitive DNA elements, which, if transcribed, can be detrimental to the organism. Expression of these elements is suppressed by establishment of repressive chromatin modifications. In Arabidopsis thaliana, they are silenced by the siRNA–mediated transcriptional gene silencing pathway, where long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) produced by RNA Polymerase V ( Pol V ) guide ARGONAUTE4 ( AGO4 ) to transcriptionally inactive loci. It is unknown how the RNA polymerase and its homolog SPT5L/KTF1, an elongation factor, are recruited to chromatographic regions of the genome. Here we show that the coordinate binding of SPTL- and KTF-binding proteins is required for DNA methylation and repressive histone modifications at several loca. We propose that this coordinated binding mechanism creates a platform for direct or indirect recruitment of chromating modifying enzymes.
Bacterial genomes typically encode multiple alternative sigma factors that reversibly associate with the RNA polymerase apoenzyme to promote the transcription of specific subsets of genes in response to changing environmental conditions. Herein, we demonstrate that one or more genes within the RpoS regulon are required for the transmission of Lyme disease spirochetes by feeding nymphs. We show that round body formation is rapidly reversible, and in vitro appears to be attributable, in part, to reduced levels of Coenzyme A disulfide reductase, which among other functions, provides NAD+ for glycolysis. Our findings reveal a previously unsuspected role for this lipoprotein for tick-to-mammal transmission.
Stamens, the male reproductive organs of flowering plants, are precisely controlled so that they coincide with the pistil development to determine the fertility. Mutations impairing stamen filament elongation, pollen maturation, or anther dehiscence will result in male sterility. Deficiency in plant hormone gibberellin ( GA ) causes male sterile phenotype due to accumulation of DELLA proteins, and GA triggers GA-response elements ( GARE ) in the promoter of the α–amylase gene in cereals. However, little is known about the relationship between GA and jasmonate ( JA ). Here, we show that GA promotes JA biosynthesis to mobilize the expression of three MYB genes. Loss-of-function of these three genes together with restoration of STAMEN filament growth in GA–deficient plants. Genetic analysis showed that the myb21-t1 MYb24-myb57-MyB57 triple mutant confers a short STamen phenotype. Further genetic and molecular studies demonstrate that Ga suppresses JA-biosynthetic genes DAD1 and LOX1. Therefore, GA upregulates the JA pathway by GA to promote JA production.
Dietary restriction ( DR ) extends lifespan in various species and also slows the onset of age-related diseases in rodents. Previous studies from flies and yeast have demonstrated that the target of rapamycin ( TOR ) pathway is essential for longevity phenotypes resulting from DR. TOR is a conserved protein kinase that regulates growth and metabolism in response to nutrients and growth factors. While some of the downstream targets of TOR have been implicated in regulating lifespan, it is still unclear whether additional pathways of this pathway also modulate lifespan. In this study, we describe a novel role for HIF-1 in modulating lifespan extension by DR in Caenorhabditis elegans. Using a modified DR method based on variation of bacterial food concentrations on solid agar plates in addition to serotonergic neurons and muscle cells, our results demonstrate a tissue-specific role in DR involving the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress pathway.
Transcription factor binding and chromatin modifications underlie progressive, irreversible cell lineage commitments and differentiation. We know little, however, about the transcriptional changes as cells enter transient, reversible functional states such as migration. Here we show that when human epidermal keratinocytes either differentiate or migrate they form complements of typical enhancers and super-enhancers that are unique for each cell type. Unique super enhancer for different cellular states link to gene expression that confers functions associated with the respective cell state. Our studies suggest that GRHL3, a transcription factor that promotes both differentiation and migration, binds preferentially to progenitor-promoting genes along with REST, repressing the expression of migration inhibitors. These transcription factors are also enriched for skin disease sequence variants.
Endogenous retroviruses ( ERVs ) are remnants of ancient retroviral infections of the host germline transmitted vertically from generation to generation. It is hypothesized that some ERV are used by the hosts as restriction factors to block the infection of related exogenous pathogens. However, data suggesting that these mechanisms have influenced the coevolution of endogenous and/or ex endogenous retroviuses and their hosts have been more difficult to obtain. Sheep are an interesting model system to study this topic because of their coexistence in this animal species, Jaagsiekte sheep and Enzootic nasal tumor virus. Here, we isolated and characterized the evolutionary history and molecular virology of 27 enJSRV proviruses. These studies determined sequentially distinct events during evolution that are indicative of an evolutionary antagonism between endogenous ( i. e., horizontally transmitted ) oncogenes, and the related endogenous/exogenous viruses.
Schistosomiasis is a snail-borne parasitic disease of great concern worldwide, occurring mainly in Africa, Asia, and to a lesser degree in South America and the Middle East. In non-endemic areas, there are a growing number of people potentially infected, given the increasing numbers of immigrants, foreign workers, travelers. Recently, the emergence of urogenital and intestinal infections has been reported in a previously uninfected area in Corsica ( France ), with more than 120 confirmed cases among local people and tourists. The diagnosis of this disease relies on microscopy procedures which are time-consuming, require trained operators and offer poor sensitivity, particularly when the parasite burden is low. Therefore, serological assays are of limited relevance for early treatment monitoring but serum PCR could be useful when performed at least 1 year after treatment to help confirm a cure.
Machine learning has recently been used for estimation of potential energy surfaces to speed up molecular dynamics simulations of small systems. We demonstrate that this approach is feasible for significantly larger, structurally complex molecules, taking the natural product Archazolid A, a potent inhibitor of vacuolar-type ATPase, from the myxobacterium Archangium gephyra as an example. Our model estimates energies of new conformations by exploiting information from previous calculations via Gaussian process regression. Predictive variance is used to assess whether a conformation is in the interpolation region, allowing a controlled trade-off between prediction accuracy and computational speed-up. The study demonstrates that predictive machine learning models can be developed to predict the energy levels of complex, pharmaceutically relevant compounds.
Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) is a zoonotic infection that has repeatedly passed from infected apes to hunters, leading to multiple epidemics and 360 human deaths ( 463 cases ) in Gabon and the Republic of Congo ( RoC ) alone since 1994. Ebolavirus vaccines have been proposed as an intervention to protect apes, but their effectiveness would be improved if we could diagnostically confirm EBOV infection as the cause of die-offs, establish the geographical distribution, identify immunologically naïve populations, and determine whether apes survive virus exposure. Here we report the first successful noninvasive detection of antibodies against Ebola virus in wild great ape feces. Using this method, we were able to identify gorillas with antibodies to the virus with an overall prevalence rate reaching 10% on average. Furthermore, evidence of antibody prevalence was identified in gorilla feces thought previously to be unexposed to Ebola ( protected from exposure by rivers as topological barriers of transmission ). Our new approach may prove valuable in the development and employment of prospective epidemiological surveillance of wild ape populations.
Type III effectors are virulence factors of Gram-negative bacterial pathogens delivered directly into host cells by the type III secretion nanomachine where they manipulate host cell processes such as the innate immunity and gene expression. Here, we show that the novel effector XopL from the model plant pathogen Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria exhibits E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in vitro and in planta, induces plant cell death and subverts plant immunity. This suggests that during co-evolution with their hosts, pathogenic bacteria have employed different solutions to fulfill the otherwise typical eukaryote-specific function of E-3 ligases.
The progressive nature of immune dysfunction in HIV infected individuals has implied that early treatment could play a critical role in reducing immune defects and in preserving T and B cell memory responses against HIV infection. Despite the fact that antiretroviral treatment ( ART ) has been pivotal to reducing the viral burden in persons infected with HIV, the concurrent decline in the HIV-specific memory response poses a great risk, as treatment interruption can lead to a loss in control of viremia. The need to identify immune parameters that are associated with preservation of the CD4+CXCR5+ T follicular helper cells ( cTfh ) function is therefore important to providing clues for therapies going forward. In this study, we examined the function of circulating T-helper helper T cells from the very early acute ( 4thG stage 1 and 2 ) and late acute stages ( stage 3 ) individuals. We found that the expression of inhibitory ( PD-1 ), costimulatory ( ICOS ) ( P = 0. 85 ) or activation markers ( CD21-CD27+ ) correlated with increased HV specific IgG secretion, which provides insight into the underlying mechanisms of early ART on immune preservation and function.
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease afflicting ~200 million people worldwide, and current therapy depends on a single drug ( praziquantel ) which exhibits several non-optimal features. These shortcomings underpin the need for next generation anthelmintics, but the process of validating physiologically relevant targets ( ‘target selection’ ) and pharmacologically profiling them is challenging. Remarkably, even though over a quarter of current human therapeutics target rhodopsin-like G protein coupled receptors ( GPCRs ), no library screen of a flatworm receptor has yet been reported. Here, we have pharmacological profiled a parasitic serotonergic receptor ( Sm. 5HTR ) implicated as a downstream modulator of PZQ efficacy, in a miniaturized screening assay compatible with high content screening. This approach employs a split luciferase based biosensor sensitive to cellular cAMP levels that resolves the proximal kinetics of modulation in intact cells. Data support the feasibility of optimizing parasitic selective pharmacophores. New ligands and chemical series, with potency and selectivity, are identified in vitro and validated for in vivo efficacy against adult worms. Further, these data underscore the potential of this abundantly expressed receptor as an attractive target for drug development.
The basic body structure of the metazoan body is achieved during gastrulation by the establishment of germ layers. Adhesion differences between ectoderm, mesodermal cells, and endodserm cells could in principle be sufficient to maintain germ layer integrity and prevent intermixing. However, in organisms as diverse as fly, fish, or amphibian, the boundary between these two tissues not only keeps these layers separated, but also serves as substratum for the migration of these cells. The boundary must be compatible with repeated cell attachment and detachment. Here, we show that localized detachment resulting from contact-induced signals at the tissue boundary and an attachment/detachment cycle allows for cell migration across a cellular substrate.
Autism Spectrum Disorder ( ASD ) encompasses a large group of early-onset neurological diseases characterized by difficulties with social communication/interaction and expression of restricted repetitive behaviors and interests. This lack of biological knowledge restricts diagnoses to be made based on behavioral observations and psychometric tools. However, physiological measurements should support these behavioral diagnoses in the future in order to enable earlier and more accurate diagnoses. Stepping towards this goal of incorporating biochemical data into ASD diagnosis, this paper analyzes measurements of metabolite concentrations of the folate-dependent one-carbon metabolism and transulfuration pathways taken from blood samples of 83 participants with ASD and 76 age-matched neurotypical peers. Fisher Discriminant Analysis enables multivariate classification of all participants as on the spectrum or neurotype while still correctly identifying 97. 6% of ASD cohort. Furthermore, kernel partial least squares is used to predict adaptive behavior, as measured by the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Composite score, where measurement of five metabolites of each pathway was sufficient to correctly resolve 96. 9%. Such low misclassification rates dissuaded the use of more complex, nonlinear methods such as KFDA.
Leishmaniasis is a group of neglected tropical diseases that are caused by parasites of the genus Leishmania. The disease occurs in human in two different clinical forms: cutaneous ( CL ) and visceral ( VL ). In Brazil, the number of CL cases has dropped from 6, 335 in 1984 to 30, 030 in 1996. From 1990 to 2007 some 560, 000 new cases were reported, primarily CL. However, after 2005, CL incidence dropped and remained stable. We used Bayesian geostatistical models fitted on readily available incidence data from the information system for notifiable diseases ( ISND ) in Brazil to predict the incidence of both diseases. Our results provide a deeper understanding of leishmanniasis control efforts, and optimizing resources allocation to render control and elimination efforts most cost-effective.
As dengue spreads to new geographical regions and the force of infection changes in existing endemic areas, a greater breadth of clinical presentations is being recognised. Clinical experience suggests that adults manifest a pattern of complications different from those observed in children, but few reports have described the age-related spectrum of disease in contemporaneous groups of patients recruited at the same geographical location. In this report we compared clinical and laboratory features, management, and outcome for 647 adults and 881 children admitted to the Hospital for Tropical Diseases ( HTD ) in Ho Chi Minh City, southern Vietnam. Signs of vascular leakage and shock were more frequent and more severe in both children and adults, while bleeding manifestations and organ involvement were also more common in adults. Secondary infection but not serotype was independently associated with greater thrombocytopenia, although with a smaller effect than age. The effect of age on platelet count was also apparent in the values obtained several weeks after recovery, indicating that healthy adults have intrinsically lower counts compared to children. Knowledge of such differences is important to inform research on disease pathogenesis, as well as to encourage development of management guidelines that are appropriate to patients at risk.
In contrast to HIV infection in humans and SIV in macaques, infection of natural hosts including sooty mangabeys ( SM ) is non-pathogenic despite robust virus replication. We identified a novel SM CCR5 allele containing a two base pair deletion ( Δ2 ) encoding a truncated molecule that is not expressed on the cell surface and does not support cell entry in vitro. The mutant allele was present at a 26% frequency in a large SM colony, along with 3% for a CXCR6 deletion allele that also abrogates surface expression. Overall, 8% of animals were homozygous for the mutant mutation and 41% were hetero-mutant in wild SM in West Africa. CD8+ and CD4+ T cells displayed a gradient of C CR5 expression across genotype groups, which was highly significant for both wild-type and HIV-null animals. Remarkably, the prevalence and use of alternative entry pathways in vivo was not significantly different in animals lacking functional protein, compared to heterozygously and homologous wild type animals, and the virus was only modestly lower in infected cells. These data clearly indicate that Sivsmm relies on alternative coreceptor use in SM and that alternative cell targeting and tropism are likely to play a central role in the inability of infected animals to replenish these populations depleted by infection.
MeF2 is a family of transcriptional regulators involved in the control of pleiotropic responses during development and adult life. In vertebrates four members of the family are characterized by the presence of a highly conserved N-terminal MADS/MEFs2 domain. Among these genes, MEF1 plays a pivotal role and their activity is subjected to tight cellular and environmental controls. Dysfunctions in ME F2 characterize several pathological conditions, including cognitive disorders, cardiac hypertrophy and cancer. Here we clarify that the two-faced trait of mycological malignancies and hepatocarcinomas is relevant for tumor aggressiveness. Class IIa HDACs are overexpressed in 22% of leiomyosarcomas ( LMS ). Hence, in a cell ME-2-target genes actively transcribed and strongly repressed can coexist. However, these repressors are poised in terms of chromatin signature. Overall our results suggest class IIA HDacs in particular, as druggable targets for a therapeutic intervention in lMS.
Hydrophobins represent an important group of proteins from both a biological and nanotechnological standpoint. They are the means through which filamentous fungi affect their environment to promote growth, and their properties at interfaces have resulted in numerous applications. In our study we have combined protein docking, molecular dynamics simulation and electron cryo-microscopy to gain atomistic level insight into the surface structure of films composed of two class II proteins, HFBI and H FBII produced by Trichoderma reesei. Together our results suggest a unit cell of six proteins; however, our computational results indicate P6 symmetry, while our experimental results show P3 symmetry. We have used a Monte Carlo simulation to show how this alternate metastable structure may play a role in increasing the rate of surface coverage by hydrophobin films, possibly indicating a mechanism of more general significance to both biology.
Aminoacyl tRNA synthetases are central enzymes required for protein synthesis. These enzymes are the known drug targets in bacteria and fungi. Here, we for the first time report the functional characterization of the enzyme activity of Leishmania donovani ThrRS ( LdThrRS ), a protozoan parasite, the primary causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis. We also studied the inhibition profile of genetically modified parasites by gene replacement strategy in the promastigote stage of parasites. Our study provides a platform for future work in a drug discovery program.
Viral infection of mammalian cells triggers the innate immune response through non-self recognition of viral pathogen associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) in viral nucleic acid. Accurate PAMP discrimination is essential to avoid self recognition that can generate autoimmunity, and therefore should be facilitated by the presence of multiple motifs in a viral RNA motif. Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) RNA is recognized as nonself by RIG-I through the use of a 5′-triphosphate motif on the viral genome in association with a 3′ poly-U/UC tract. Here we define the HV RNA structure-function and the criteria for the recognition and binding of the virus RNA by examining the RNA structures and RNA function attributes that impart the binding and activation of RNA polymerase I. We found that the 34 nucleotide Poly-uridine “core” of this sequence tract was essential for RNA RNA activation. When appended to a single RNA that lacks a functional RNA pAMP activity, the poly U-core sequence was required to achieve optimal binding to the IFN-β-promoter. These studies define a multi-motif signature of non self-recognition by RNA and provide insights into the antiviral therapeutic potential of targeted anti-HCV signaling.
Eosinophilia is a hallmark of the host immune response to parasitic worms. It has become increasingly clear that the functions of these cells extend beyond host defense and allergy to metabolism and tissue regeneration. These influences have strong potential to be relevant in worm infections in which eosinsophils are prominent and parasites rely on the parasite for nutrients to support growth or reproduction. The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism underlying the observation that Eosinella spiralis larvae grow normally in skeletal muscle. Our results indicate that both the IL-4 and the EOSINophil-dependent effect operates in the absence of adaptive immunity. Following invasion by newborn larvae, host gene expression in muscle was compatible with a regenerative response and a shift in nutrient homeostasis in infected tissue. Importantly, the presence of a host protein called glucose transporter 4 ( GLUT4 ) and phosphorylation of Akt were observed in nurse cells, consistent with enhancement of glucose uptake and glycogen storage by larvae that is known to occur. Taken together, our findings document a novel interaction between parasite and host that allows worms to co-opt an innate host cell response in a way that facilitates their growth.
Genome-wide replication timing studies have suggested that mammalian chromosomes consist of megabase-scale domains of coordinated origin firing separated by large originless transition regions. However, in differentiated cells or in cancer cells, most if not all TTRs replicate significantly faster than predicted by unidirectional progression of a single fork. We propose an alternative domino model for origin activation in which replication forks progressing from early origins stimulate initiation in nearby unreplicated DNA and the space/time intervals between consecutive initiations explain the observed range of apparent replication speeds.
The ability to recognize objects in spite of changes in the environment is doubtlessly an advantage in everyday life. However, our brain usually performs this task with such astonishing ease that we are seldom aware of the complexity this recognition problem comprises. Inverting this reasoning, a sensory system that adapts to its sensory input in order to extract slowly varying aspects may succeed in learning invariant representations.
Understanding intrinsic and acquired resistance is crucial to overcoming cancer chemotherapy failure. While it is well-established that intratumor, subclonal genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity significantly contribute to resistance, it remains not fully understood how tumor sub-clones interact with each other to withstand therapy pressure. Here, we report a previously unrecognized behavior in heterogeneous tumors: cooperative adaptation to therapy ( CAT ), in which cancer cells induce co-resistant phenotypes in neighboring tumor cells when exposed to cancer therapy. Using a CRISPR/Cas9 toolkit we engineered a novel phenotype in non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) cells by conferring mutations in Dicer1, a type III cytoplasmic endoribonuclease involved in RNA genesis. We monitored three-dimensional growth dynamics of fluorescently-labeled mutant and/or wild-type cells individually or in co culture using a substrate-free NanoCulture system under unstimulated or drug pressure conditions. By integrating mathematical modeling with flow cytometry we determined that cellular and morphologic heterogeneity correlates to prognostic failure of multiple clinically-approved drugs in individual patient samples. Together, these findings present a new paradox in drug resistance implicating non–genetic cooperation among tumors to thwart treatment pressure, suggesting that profiling for druggable targets ( i. e. mutations ) alone may be insufficient to assign effective therapy to patients.
Rickettsioses are endemic in sub-Sahara Africa. Burden of disease, risk factors and transmission are hitherto sparsely described. From the EMINI ( Evaluating and Monitoring the Impact of New Interventions ) population cohort, we randomly selected 1, 228 persons above the age of 5 years from the nine participating communities in Mbeya region, Southwestern Tanzania, stratified by age, altitude of residence and ownership of domestic mammals, to conduct a cross-sectional seroprevalence study in. Serology ( indirect immunofluorescence ) was performed at a dilution of 1:64. SFG-seropositivity in the cohort was found to be 67. 9% ( range among nine sites: 42. 8–91. 4% ). Multivariable analysis revealed an association with age ( prevalence ratio, PR per 10 years: 1. 08; 95% CI 1. 06–1. 10 ), warmer temperatures, male gender, and low population density. At higher elevations, higher cattle density was associated with higher risk of infection. This study will also allow determination of the causative pathogens.
Fatty acids are the key structural components of phospholipids and triglycerides, and thereby affect nearly every facet of eukaryotic physiology. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is a valuable model for studying the roles of fatty acids in metazoan biology. Because worms normally eat bacteria for food, their evolution has been shaped by interactions with both pathogenic and nonpathogenic microorganisms. In this study, we identify two stearoyl-coenzyme A ( CoA ) desaturases that synthesize oleate as a substrate for the induction of innate immune defense genes. We show that the synthesis of ooleate is necessary for pathogen-mediated induction by the host immune response. Accordingly, C. worms deficient in the production of the monounsaturated fatty acid oLEate are hypersusceptible to infection with diverse human pathogens, which can be rescued with the addition of exogenous oolate. However, oleenate alone is not sufficient to drive protective immune activation. Together, these data add to the known health-promoting effects of monosodium glutamate ( MUFA ) and suggest an ancient link between nutrient stores, metabolism, host susceptibility to bacterial infection.
Multiple drug resistance ( MDR ) stems from the fact that drug design has been largely based on limited chemical scaffolds leaving an opportunity for pathogens to circumvent antibiotic action mechanisms. Recently, community-acquired methicillin-resistant S. aureus ( MRSA ) infections have emerged and are commonly responsible for skin and soft-tissue infections that may rapidly evolve in severe and life-threatening infections. The pathogen C. difficile has also dramatically increased the hospital-associated deaths in recent years due to the emergence and spreading of the hypervirulent and high toxin-producing strain BI/NAP1/027. This particular strain is spreading in North America and Europe with currently little therapeutic solutions besides the use of metronidazole and vancomycin, which are increasingly associated with relapses and poor treatment outcome.
Neurons in the primate hippocampus are the quintessential signature of hippocampal neural activity in rodents and code the animal’s position in an environment in which spatial information is principally derived from visual input. In this framework, we jointly examined navigation behavior as macaque monkeys searched a virtual reality maze for a reward. Cells sensitive to place also responded to one or more variables like head direction, point of gaze, or task context. Many cells fired at the sight ( and in anticipation ) of a single landmark in a viewpoint-or task-dependent manner, simultaneously encoding the position and directionality of that landmark within a set of actions leading to the goal. Overall, our results give a comprehensive and thorough analysis of the variables controlling the activity of hippocampus cells, bridging the gap between studies in rodent and primates—including humans—collected in real and virtual environments.
During vertebrate development, the central nervous system arises from a precursor tissue called neural plate, which is patterned along the anterior-posterior axis into four regions. This patterning is determined by a well-defined and locally restricted expression of genes, and by the action of short and long range signaling centers, also called secondary organizers. The development of mid- and hindbrain, for example, is controlled by an isthmic organizer ( IsO ) located at the boundary between the prospective midbrain boundary ( MHB ). In this contribution, we describe a methodology for the inference of regulatory interactions by systematic logical analyses of spatial gene expression patterns. Our analysis employs techniques from computational logic and allows us to predict also the interplay between key transcription and secreted factors. We predict a maintaining, rather than inducing, effect of Fgf8 on Wnt1 expression, an issue that remained unclear from published data. Using mouse anterior neural plates/tube explant cultures we provide experimental evidence that this finding can be used to infer information about the structure of multi-cellular regulatory networks.
The parasite Theileria annulata transforms infected host cells, inducing uncontrolled proliferation and clonal expansion of the parasitized cell population. This process involves the recruitment and stable association of de novo synthesized astral and central spindle MTs with the parasite, which develops into the transforming schizont. The latter does not egress to invade and transform other cells and, during mitosis and cytokinesis, engages the host cell microtubular network to secure its distribution between the two daughter cells. However, the molecular mechanism by which the Schizont recruits end-binding protein 1 ( EB1 ), a central component of MT plus end protein interaction network, is not known. Using a range of in vitro experiments, we demonstrate that T. annulusata p104, an antigen expressed on the surface, functions as a genuine parasite-encoded protein. Binding strictly depends on a bona-fide SxIP motif located in a highly disordered C-terminal region. We further show that parasite interaction with host-regulatory protein1 is cell cycle regulated. Our findings provide important new insight into how the cytoskeleton regulates the rates of parasite growth and shrinkage and finely tune MT dynamics that is so crucial for many functions.
DNA replication is a major source of nuclear DNA damage under normal mitotic growth conditions, i. e. in the absence of drugs or irradiation. Replication of telomeres, the ends of eukaryotic chromosomes, involves the enzyme telomerase. In budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, broken replication forks result in DNA breaks that are normally repaired via homologous recombination or break induced replication ( BIR ). However, in cells with persistent DNA replication, constitutive activation of the DNA repair checkpoint and longer telomesres required the transcription factor Pif1. We found that the telomic elongation phenotype of cdc9-1 cells was dependent on the phosphorylation locus, which was previously found to be important for the role of PIF1 at double strand breaks. Furthermore, we observed that two other mutants with impaired DNA replicating, cd44-5 and rrm3Δ, were similar to the mutant. Thus, our results suggest a model whereby the passage of DNA break-induced replication can promote telomase activity and leads to telomal lengthening, thereby funneling the broken DNA into appropriate genome-preserving repair pathways.
Onchocerciasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by the filarial nematode Onchococerca volvulus ( Ov ). Previous studies from many different laboratories have identified a large number of potential Ov antigens that might be useful for early detection of recrudescent infections in areas under control and for mapping new areas of transmission of Ov infection. We investigated whether luciferase immunoprecipitation systems ( LIPS ) may be used as a more rapid, specific, and standardized diagnostic assay for detecting Ov-infected sera. In addition to testing all four recombinant antibodies separately, a mixture that tested the four different Ov antibodies simultaneously was evaluated in a standard 2-hour incubation format as well as with a rapid 15-minute test ( so-called QLIPS, for quick, high throughput ) for distinguishing the Ov antigen panel in the standard format from the uninfected controls. Antibody responses to each of these four Ov 3-drug cocktail were markedly different and did not correlate with each other. The simplified method of using a combination of the 4 different antibodies in individual Ov seras showed a highly sensitive, robust and high-throughput testing format with 100% sensitivity and specificity values of 76%, 84% and 93% in distinguishing Ov from Wuchereria bancrofti and Loa loa-MSA-1, respectively.
Iron deficiency is one of the most common nutritional deficiencies affecting women of reproductive age and children. The increased demand for iron in these groups is often exacerbated by limited intake of heme iron, and hookworm infection with associated gastrointestinal blood loss. Maternal iron deficiency anemia is associated with intra-uterine growth retardation, low birth weight, preterm birth, increased risk of maternal and infant mortality. There are also major benefits for women to be iron sufficient when not pregnant, in particular, improved resistance to infection and greater work capacity and productivity.
Herpesviruses are widespread viruses that establish lifelong persistent infections in their host, even in the face of virus-specific immunity. This is exemplified by life-threatening reactivations of e. g. herpesvirus in individuals with impaired T-cell and/or iNKT cell responses. To allow lifelong persistence and virus production in spite of primed immunity, herpesvirus exploit immune evasion strategies. These include a reduction in viral antigen expression during latency and a number of escape mechanisms that target antigen presentation pathways. Given the plethora of foreign antigens expressed in infected cells, it is conceivable that these viruses are conceivably most vulnerable to elimination by cell-mediated immunity during the replicative phase of infection. Here, we show that a prototypic virus, Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ), encodes a novel immunoevasin, gp150, that downregulates the expression of several antigen-presenting molecules. We provide evidence that this virus glycoprotein shields the recognition of these surface molecules in a glycan-dependent manner.
Chlamydia trachomatis is the most frequently reported sexually transmitted disease in the United States and the leading cause of preventable blindness worldwide. Chlamydial pathogenesis is partially mediated by the translocation of secreted effectors at the time of bacterium-host-cell contact. Recent studies have shown that the type III secretion effector, Tarp, initiates actin filament formation via a specific mechanism. This mechanism is distinct from known eukaryotic actsin nucleators. In this study, we examined the ability of a single chlamidial species to bind and nucleate the extracellular protein, the transmembrane binding protein. We found that all pathogenic species and serovars possess at least three functionally distinct domains. These domains are required for the binding of multiple proteins on a linear polypeptide and for nucleation of the protein by oligomerization. Our findings indicate that this function plays an important role in bacterial invasion of host cells.
Schistosomiasis japonica is a zoonosis with a number of mammalian species acting as reservoir hosts, including water buffaloes which can contribute up to 75% to human transmission in the People's Republic of China. Determining the prevalence and intensity of SchistoJaponicum eggs in mammalian hosts is important for calculating transmission rates and determining environmental contamination. A new procedure, the formalin–ethyl acetate sedimentation-digestion ( FEA–SD ) technique, is described that is an effective technique for identifying and quantifying S. japitalia in bovines and other ruminant hosts. This technique removes nearly 70% of the bulk debris from the fecal samples and renders the remaining debris translucent. It provides an accurate quantitative method for the estimation of infection in Bovine feces.
Obstructive Osteogenesis Imperfecta ( OI ) is caused by mutations in the genes encoding cartilage associated protein ( CRTAP ) and prolyl 3-hydroxylase 1 ( P3H1 ). These proteins, together with cyclophilin B ( encoded by PPIB ), form a complex that stabilizes a single proline residue on the α1 ( I ) chain and has cis/trans isomerase activity essential for proper collagen folding. Recent data suggest that the post-translational modification of Pro986 is not required for the structural stability of collagen; however, the absence of this modification may disrupt protein-protein interactions and lead to collagen over-modification. This important question was addressed in vitro and in vivo by introducing a point mutation ( Lepre1H662A ) that inactivated the catalytic domain of the complex while preserving the protein secondary structure and the collagen chaperone function.
Transposable elements ( TEs ) are the ‘ultimate parasite’. They are genetically simple, with autonomous elements consisting of as little as one protein coding gene, but remarkably successful, comprising much of the bulk of large eukaryotic genomes. In the short-term, transposons are vertically transmitted, and so can only cause limited damage to their hosts without extinguishing themselves. The best-studied example of a horizontally transferred element is the P-element, which was acquired by Drosophila melanogaster by horizontal transfer from a distant relative. Until recently, its sister species, including D. simulans, remained free of this element. Here, we find a hybrid dysgenesis-like phenotype in the offspring of crosses between strains collected in different years; a survey of 181 strains shows that around 20% of strains induce this phenotype. Importantly, as evidenced by their resistance to the hybrids-inducing phenotype, strains have adapted to suppress the worst effects.
Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus are two major mosquito species responsible for the transmission of mosquito-borne diseases in the wild. Previous reports from other insects indicated rhodamine B, a thiol-reactive fluorescent dye, administered via sugar-feeding can be used to stain the body tissue and seminal fluid of insects. Here, we report on the adaptation of this technique to allow for rapid assessment of competitiveness ( mating success ) during field releases. Marking was achieved by feeding males on 0. 1, 0. 2, 1. 4 or 0, 8% ( w/v ) in 50% honey solutions during free flight. All concentrations produced >95% transfer to females and successful body marking after 4 days of feeding, with the concentrations producing the longest-lasting body marks. Importantly, the marking had no effect on male mating competitiveness and proof-of-principle field release demonstrated successful transfer of marked seminal fluids to female under field conditions and recapture of the marked males. These results reveal the potential of r. B to be a potentially useful evaluation method for male-based SIT/IIT control strategies as well as a viable mark-release-recapture experiment without the negative side-effects of traditional marking methods.
Bacterial superantigens, a diverse family of toxins, induce an inflammatory cytokine storm that can lead to lethal shock. CD28 is a homodimer expressed on T cells that functions as the principal costimulatory ligand in the immune response through an interaction with its B7 coligands, yet we show here that to elicit a lethal response, superants must bind directly into the dimer interface of CD27. Preventing access of the Superantigen to CD29 suffices to block its lethality. Mice were protected from lethal superantiigen challenge by short peptide mimetics of their CD2 binding site and by peptides selected to compete with the superANTigen for its binding sites. We show that when a subunit binds to the T cell receptor and major histocompatibility class II molecule on the antigen-presenting cell, it can be accommodated readily as third receptor for a class of microbial pathogens. Our findings identify the CD 28 dimeric interface as a critical receptor target for superantisigen toxins and broadens the scope of pathogen recognition mechanisms.
Embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) present a fast cell cycle with a short G1 phase. This is due to the lack of expression of cells cycle inhibitors, which ultimately determines naïve pluripotency by holding back differentiation. The canonical Wnt/β-catenin pathway controls stem cell proliferation via Tcf/Lef factors. However, if the activity of the transcriptional machinery controls the proliferation and potency of mESCs remains unknown. Here we show that the activation of a known mitogenic pathway in somatic tissues, restores the G2 phase and drastically reduces the number of cell differentiation genes. Activation of this pathway results in the downregulation of some cells and an increase in cell reprogramming. All together, here we showed that WNT signaling controls mesC proliferation through non-overlapping functions of distinct T-cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor ( Lef ) factors, indicating a novel function of T. cell-cycle inhibitors.
Dengue is the most important arthropod-borne emerging viral disease in tropical countries due to its high morbidity and risk of mortality. Dengue virus ( DENV ) is a single-stranded RNA virus that causes a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from asymptomatic to severe clinical features, characterized by hemorrhagic manifestations and a shock syndrome. Plasmacytoid dendritic cells ( pDCs ) are innate immune cells and in response to virus exposure secrete IFN-α and express membrane TRAIL ( mTRAIL ). In this report we investigated the activation of pdcs and their antiviral role in vitro. We found that during acute phase of DF, p DCs are activated in monocytes and are relocalized from intracellular compartment to plasma membrane. This viral antigens reduction was also observed after exogenous treatment. Thus, we propose that these cells are likely beneficiating the disease outcome.
The immune response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection is complex. Experimental evidence has revealed that tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) plays a major role in host defense against the tubercle bacillus in both the active and latent phases of infection. The present study takes a computational approach toward characterizing the role of tNF in protection against TB. We extend our previous mathematical models to investigate the roles and production of soluble and transmembrane tmTNF and a soluble p75 receptor fusion ( TNFR2Fc ), predicting mechanisms that explain observed differences in TB reactivation rates. Using a mathematical model, it is possible to distinguish mechanisms of action of the anti-tumor-neutralizing drugs and gain insights into TB control and pathology.
Retrocopies ( pseudo ) genes are gene copies that originate through the process of reverse transcription of mRNAs and their subsequent insertion into the genome. This process, called retroposition, is usually mediated by enzymes provided by retrotransposable elements and creates intronless copies of existing genes. Due to the lack of promoter sequence of their parental genes, retrogenes were long assumed to be nonfunctional and simply “junk DNA”. However, multiple findings challenged that view and a few mechanisms were proposed for retrogene transcription. In this study, we used the results of Phase 1 from the 1000 Genomes Project to investigate the variation in loss of ancestral ( i. e. shared with other primates ) retrocopIES among different human populations. Altogether we were able to detect 193 retroduplication variations ( RDVs ), a class of polymorphisms, in which a retrocopy is present or absent from individual genomes. Most of these RDV had not been previously reported. We experimentally confirmed the presence or absence of 11 ancestral retrogens that underwent deletion in certain individuals and found that the expression, conservation and low rate of deletion of the remaining 10 were very low. These findings suggest some functionality.
Neurocysticercosis ( NCC ), infection of the central nervous system by the parasitic helminth Taenia solium cysticerci, is a pleomorphic disease. Inflammation is the major cause of disease but is variably present. One factor modulating the inflammatory responses may be the location and characteristics of vessels in the parenchyma and meninges ( corticomeningeal ). This study used a naturally infected pig as disease-based model to quantify and compare the inflammation response following cystidal treatment to those located in Parenchymal or meningeal tissue. The degree of inflammation was estimated by use of a histological score ( ISC ) based on the extent of tissue inflammation in pericystic areas as assessed in an image composed of several photomicrographs taken at 40X amplification. Disruption of both the blood-brain barrier was associated with treatment only in a single dose of praziquantel; 3 pigs did not receive treatment.
Yaws, caused by Treponema pallidum ssp. pertenue, is reportedly endemic in Ghana. Mass distribution of azithromycin at a lower target dose was previously undertaken in two regions of Ghana for the control of trachoma. Ongoing reporting of yaws raises the possibility that resistance may have emerged in other infections, such as Staphylococcus aureus, or that alternative infections may be responsible for some of the reported cases. We conducted a cross-sectional survey of children aged 5–17 years with ulcerative lesions compatible with Yaws in thirty communities of northern Ghana, in the rainy season of June–July 2014. The majority of ulcers sampled, 91/98 ( 93% ), were on the lower legs. Syphilis serology was negative in all of them, but Haemophilus ducreyi DNA was detected in 9 lesions. In these communities, previously treated for tracheoma, we found no evidence of ongoing transmission of zimophilia, suggesting that this is a common cause of non-genital skin lesions in children.
Current antiretroviral therapy ( ART ) fails to eliminate a small number of cells harboring integrated, replication competent viral DNA. This HIV reservoir has represented a major limitation in eradicating HIV. Despite advances in the treatment of HIV infection with ART, elucidating strategies to overcome HIV persistence, including blockade of viral reservoir establishment, maintenance, and expansion, remains a challenge. We evaluated the ability of two FDA-approved Jak inhibitors to block seeding and maintenance of the HIV reservoirs in vivo, ex vivo and in vitro; pSTAT5 strongly correlates with increased levels of integrated HIV DNA in a primary T cell latency model at physiologic concentrations. In vitro Jak inhibitor block viral production from infected cells, inhibit γ-C receptor cytokine ( IL-15 ) -induced viral reactivation from latent stores thereby preventing transmission of infectious particles to bystander activated T cells. These results show that dysregulation of Jak-STAT pathway is associated with viral persistence and that Jak inhibition target key events downstream of κ-c-receptor cytokines ligation to their receptors, impacting the magnitude and the reservoir in all memory CD4 cell subsets in both vitro and vivo.
Baculoviruses are large DNA viruses that infect arthropods, mainly insects from the orders Lepidoptera, Diptera and Hymenopteras. During their replication cycle, they produce two distinct morphological forms, the occlusion-derived virus that is responsible for transmission of the infection between insects and the budded virus, which spreads the disease within one insect host. Insects have a long history of being used as microbial insecticides to control insect pest populations in forestry and agriculture. The immune system faces an enormous challenge especially in gut tissue as in addition to the invading pathogens, it must continuously confront microbiota present in the gut lumen. To date, little is known about the interaction between gut microbiota and virus infection. In this study, we used microarray to determine the levels of immune-related genes in S. exigua cells infected with the species-specific baculeovirus SeMNPV as well as with a generalist, broad-range BACULovIRV. We found that the expression of these genes was down-regulated after infection, and we hypothesize this to be as a consequence of viral infection and that gut bacteria play an important role in virus pathogenesis.
Apomixis, or asexual clonal reproduction through seeds, is of immense interest due to its potential application in crop improvement. One key element of apomaxis is apomeiosis, a deregulation of meiosis that results in a mitotic-like division. We isolated and characterised a novel gene that is directly involved in controlling entry into the second meiotic division in the sexual plant Arabidopsis thaliana. By combining a mutation in this gene with two other mutations, one that eliminates recombination and pairing ( Atspo11-1 ) and another that modifies chromatid segregation ( Atrec8 ), we created a genotype MiMe for “mitosis instead of mitosis”.
The prioritization of candidate disease-causing genes is a fundamental challenge in the post-genomic era. Current state of the art algorithms exploit a protein-protein interaction network for this task. They are based on the observation that genes causing phenotypically-similar diseases tend to lie close to one another in a PPI network. However, to date, these methods have used a static picture of human PPIs, while diseases impact specific tissues in which the networks may be dramatically different. Here, for the first time, we perform a large-scale assessment of how tissue-specific gene expression data can be used to prioritize candidate genes for type 2 Diabetes. We construct tissue specific networks for 60 healthy human tissues and investigate their prioritizing power. Our results show that these networks considerably improve the prioritation results compared to those obtained using a generic network, pointing to sub-clinical tissue effects that may escape early detection.
The evolution of insecticide resistance ( IR ) appears to be a near-inevitable consequence of attempting to control insect populations through insecticides and there is considerable interest in designing and optimising strategies to offset its impact. The best known example of the latter was written by the late Chris Curtis and published in 1985. It has been cited nearly 200 times, not just for IR, but for analogous situations of drug resistance in other sexual diploid organisms such as parasitic worms. This manuscript will focus on the control of mosquitoes responsible for transmitting human malaria, which is the target of considerable public health efforts.
Blood-sucking triatomines are hematophagous insects that act as vectors of Chagas disease. Rhodnius neglectus is one of these kissing bugs found, contributing to the transmission of this American trypanosomiasis. Next generation sequencing ( NGS ) is capable of providing much more sequence data in a single run, with a higher resolution than that from the Sanger technique, allowing for deeper analysis of the transcripts. Deep sequencing increases the possibilities of finding new biological molecules with therapeutic potential for treating circulatory disorders.
We are interested in understanding the genetic mechanisms that underlie organismal responses to their environment, especially in light of human induced environmental change. One application of this technology is to identify genes that are differentially expressed in response to different environmental conditions. However, whether differential expression is predictive of functional importance has yet to be tested. Here we have addressed this expectation by employing Caenorhabditis elegans as a model for the interaction of native soil nematode taxa and soil bacteria. Using transcriptional profiling, we identified candidate genes regulated in the different bacteria isolated in association with grassland soils. Many of the regulated genes are predicted to affect metabolism and innate immunity, suggesting similar genes could influence microbial community dynamics in natural systems. We show that the degree of differential gene expression between bacterial environments can be informative about the relative contributions to function, at least for life history traits.
A critical event in mammalian embryo development is construction of an inner cell mass surrounded by a trophoectoderm ( a shell of cells that later form extra-embryonic structures ). We utilize multi-scale, stochastic modeling to investigate the design principles responsible for robust establishment of these structures. This investigation makes three predictions, each supported by our quantitative imaging. First, cell-cell contact mediated positional information promotes cell plasticity and has a critical role in accurately organizing the developing mouse blastocyst. Second, asymmetry in the levels of noise variation ( expression fluctuation ) of Cdx2 and Oct4 provides a means to gain the benefits of cell fate specification while ameliorating the potentially detrimental effects. Finally, by controlling the timing and pace of stem cell division, the embryo temporally modulates its fate and creates a time window during which each cell can continually read its environment and adjust its own fate.
Antibodies are the primary effector molecules in the humoral immune system, inhibiting pathogenicity of microbes by binding to surface-exposed elements on foreign particles. The germline gene repertoire encodes a finite number of starting structures that must be capable of recognizing a large and diverse array of antigens to which one could be exposed. A lock-and-key model of binding between two rigid proteins, dominated the antibody field for many years. Somatic mutations acquired during affinity maturation refine the pre-bound structure of a specific antibody to bind optimally to a single particular antigen, a capacity referred to here as polyspecificity. In this work, we used the Rosetta multi-state design algorithm to predict antibody sequences for the entire heavy chain variable region, including the VH gene, CDR2, and immunoglobulin framework. We found that when designing antibodies that could bind multiple antigen at once, the sequence similar to that of the mature antibody sequence was returned, mimicking natural antibody binding in silico.
Locusts exhibit two interconvertible behavioral phases, solitarious and gregarious. Both are attracted to conspecifics and can form large aggregations such as marching hopper bands. Numerous biological experiments at the individual level have shown how crowding biases conversion towards the gremlinarious form. To understand the formation of marching locust hoppers bands, we construct a partial integrodifferential equation model incorporating the interplay between phase change and spatial movement, and in a quantitative framework. Numerical simulations provide descriptions of the aggregation's structure and the time scale for this to occur. Our predictions of aggregation and mass Gregarization suggest several possible future studies.
Viral membrane fusion proceeds through a sequence of steps that are driven by triggered conformational changes of viral envelope glycoproteins, so-called fusion proteins. Although high-resolution structural snapshots of these conformations are available, it has been difficult to define intermediate structures of the fusion pathway because of their transient nature. Flaviviruses possess a class II viral fusion protein ( E ) mediating fusion at acidic pH that is converted from a dimer to a trimer with a hairpin-like structure. Here, we show for tick-borne encephalitis virus that exposure of virions to alkaline instead of pH traps the particles in an intermediate conformation in which the E dimers dissociate and interact with target membranes via fusion peptide without proceeding to the merger of both the membranes. Further treatment to low pH, however, leads to fusion, suggesting that these monomers correspond to an as-yet-elusive intermediate required to convert the membrane-inserted prehairpin intermediate. Thus, the use of nonphysiological conditions allows a dissection of flavivirus fusion process and the identification of two separate steps, which are required for membrane insertion of multiple copies of E monomeric intermediates and allows the formation of trimers.
The rapid and accelerating loss of biodiversity is the most significant ecological challenge we face today. Current rates of extinction are already estimated to be several orders of magnitude greater than background rates. The main direct human-induced drivers that impact biodiversity now are habitat loss and fragmentation, whereas climate change is likely to become a dominant future driver. As we move towards assembling the complete tree-of-life, there has been increasing emphasis on preserving phylogenetic diversity. In vertebrates, species traits, such as body size, fecundity, and geographic range, are important predictors of vulnerability. Although plants are the basis for life on Earth, our knowledge of plant extinctions and vulnerabilities is lagging. Here, we disentangle the underlying drivers of species extinction risk in plants, focusing on the Cape of South Africa, a global biodiversity hotspot. By comparing Red List data for the British and South African floras and comparing the taxonomic distribution of threats across 11 exemplar clades we show that species' present-day vulnerabilities can be explained by their recent evolutionary past.
Innate immune cells eliminate pathogens by phagocytosis, a process of internalization followed by degradation of the pathogen. Macrophages and neutrophils are the first line of defense against Candida albicans, which is a common cause of human fungal infections. Dectin-1 is the major receptor involved in anti-fungal immunity. In this study, we identify two new interacting proteins of this receptor, Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase ( BTK ) and the guanine nucleotide exchange factor Vav1, that are recruited to macrophage cups containing C. albs yeasts or hyphae but are absent from mature phagosomes. We show that these proteins colocalize with the lipid PI ( 3, 4, 5 ) P3 and F-actin, but not with diacylglycerol ( DAG ) which marks more mature Phagosomal membranes. Using a selective inhibitor of VAV1-deficient mice are more susceptible to systemic infection than wild type mice.
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is a vector-borne disease affecting ruminants and humans. Madagascar experienced two major outbreaks in 2008–2009, with evidence of a large and heterogeneous spread of the disease. The identification of at-risk environments is essential to optimize the available resources. Herein, the objectives of our study were: ( i ) to identify the environmental factors and areas favorable to human infections in Malagasy contexts. Cattle and human seroprevalence rates were positively associated to humid environments. Areas with high cattle density were at risk ( p<0. 01; OR = 2. 6 ). Furthermore, our analysis showed that frequent contact with raw milk contributed to explain human infection. Our study highlighted the western, north-western and the eastern-coast areas suitable to Culex and Anopheles mosquitoes, vectorial and direct transmissions probably occur in both cattle and.
Prions are self-propagating protein conformations. Transmission of the prion state between non-identical proteins, e. g. between homologous proteins from different species, is frequently inefficient. Here we use a yeast Rnq1/[PIN+]-based experimental system to explore the nature of transmission barriers. We show that one common region is required and generally sufficient for the transmission; ( i ) despite identical sequences of common QN-rich regions, such transmissions are impeded by barriers of different strength. Existence of these barriers is clearly distinct from previously discussed barriers determined by aa mismatches in transmitting regions.
A large body of literature exists on the topic of population genetic models. However, it is often difficult to interpret the output of such models due to the complexity of the data. To circumvent this problem, we introduce a novel likelihood-free inference framework by applying deep learning, a powerful modern technique in machine learning. Deep learning makes use of multilayer neural networks to learn a feature-based function from the input ( e. g., hundreds of correlated summary statistics of data ), and then compare these output statistics. We demonstrate that our method can be effectively employed to infer both natural selection and demography ( in the form of a population size change history ) without sequential steps for these two factors. Studying demographically and selection jointly is motivated by Drosophila, where pervasive selection confounds demographic analysis. In addition, our demographic inference suggests that previously estimated bottlenecks are too extreme.
High-risk human papillomavirus ( HR-HPV ) E6/E7 oncoproteins are essential for the development of malignancies of the anogenital tract and oropharynx, with HPV16 being the predominant type. Persistent HPV infection destabilizes the cellular genome which can lead to cancer. Genomic instability is likely the result of numerous interactions of HPV oncogenes with host tumor suppressors and DNA damage repair ( DDR ) proteins. In this study, we show that high risk HPV-associated cancers are characterized by bone marrow failure, congenital malformations, cancer predisposition, and cellular sensitivity to ICL-inducing agents.
The Southern Chiapas focus of onchocerciasis in Southern Mexico represents one of the major foci in Latin America. All 559 endemic communities of this focus have undergone semi-annual mass mass treatment with ivermectin since 1998. In 50 communities, the frequency shifted from twice to four times a year in 2003; an additional 113 communities were added to the quarterly treatment regimen in 2009 to achieve a rapid suppression of transmission. The in-depth epidemiologic and entomologic assessments were performed in six sentinel communities ( which had undergone 2 rounds of treatment per year ) and three extra-sentinel populations. None of Simulium ochraceum s. l. collected from this area during the dry season of 2011 were found to contain parasite DNA when tested by polymerase chain reaction-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( PCR-ELISA ), resulting in an upper bound of 95% confidence interval ( 95%-ULCI ) of infective rate in the vectors of 0. 06/2, 000 flies examined. Serological assays testing for parasite exposure conducted on 4, 230 children 5 years of age and under ( of a total population of 10, 280 in this age group ) revealed that 2/4, 230 individuals were exposed to O. volvulus. These results meet the criteria for interruption of infection developed by the international community.
Listeria monocytogenes is a Gram-positive facultative intracellular bacterial pathogen that invades mammalian cells and escapes from membrane-bound vacuoles to replicate within the host cell cytosol. Gene products required for bacterial growth and bacterial spread to adjacent cells are regulated by a transcriptional activator known as PrfA. In this study, we provide evidence for the secretion of a small peptide pheromone, pPplA, which enhances the escape of L. monocompromised bacteria from host cells. Mutational activation of the protein restores virulence and eliminates the need for pC-dependent signaling.
Vibrio cholerae, the causative agent of cholera, is able to colonize host small intestines and combat host-produced reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) during infection. In order to overcome ROS in vivo, we performed a whole-genome transposon sequencing analysis ( Tn-seq ) by comparing gene requirements for colonization using adult mice with and without the antioxidant, N-acetyl cysteine. We found that mutants of the methyl-directed mismatch repair ( MMR ) system, such as MutS, displayed significant colonization advantages in untreated, ROS-rich mice, but not in NAC-treated mice. Further analyses suggest that the accumulation of both catalase-overproducing mutants and rugose colony variants was the leading cause of mutS mutant enrichment caused by oxidative stress. These findings suggest a temporal adaptive strategy to battle ROS, resulting in enriched phenotypes. Moreover, ΔmutS passage and complementation can be used to model hypermutation in diverse pathogens to identify novel stress resistance mechanisms.
M mismatch repair ( MMR ) requires reciprocal exchange of genetic information ( crossing over ) between homologs. Errors in meiotic chromosome segregation are a leading cause of spontaneous miscarriages and birth defects. Yeast Mlh1-Pms1 and its human orthodimer MLH1+PMS2 both exhibit an endonuclease activity that is essential for MMR. In this study, we analyzed in baker’s yeast 60 new mlh3 alleles. Five of these mutations specifically disrupted MMR, whereas one of the mutants specifically disrupt meiosis. We found that the MSH complex that acts in MMR promotes the majority of noncrossover events, consistent with recombination intermediates being resolved through alternative pathways.
Intense use of antibiotics for the treatment of diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria, Staphylococcus aureus or gonorrhea has led to rapidly increasing population levels of drug resistance. This has generally necessitated a switch to new drugs and the discontinuation of older ones, after which resistance often only declines slowly or even persists indefinitely. These long-term effects are usually ascribed to low fitness costs of resistance in absence of the drug. Here we show that structure in the host population, in particular heterogeneity in number of contacts, also plays an important role modulating the reversion dynamics. Host contact structure acts both during the phase of intense treatment, leading to non-random distributions of resistant strains among the infected population and by affecting the competition dynamics resulting in a mitigation of fitness advantages associated with resistance mutations. As a consequence, we observe both a lower rate of infection when fitness differences between resistant and sensitive strains on the population level occur after treatment is stopped.
Autism spectrum disorders ( ASDs ) are highly heritable and characterised by deficits in social interaction and communication, as well as restricted and repetitive behaviours. Although a number of highly penetrant ASD gene variants have been identified, there is growing evidence to support a causal role for combinatorial effects arising from the contributions of multiple loci. Here, we use Drosophila as an in vivo system to examine genetic interactions that may contribute to neurological phenotypes like ASD. We first show that dosage alterations of candidate genes from de novo copy number variants ( CNVs ) that harbour only a single candidate gene display neurological defects similar to those previously reported in models of ASD, neuropsychiatric disease and intellectual disability. This is particularly important as patient genotypes possess variants that appear to operate in the same functional pathway/network and, secondly, a significant proportion of these genes simultaneously affect multiple genes whose proteins interact within that network, supporting distinct molecular aetiologies. Our study illustrates mechanisms through which synergistic effects resulting from large structural variation can contribute in human disease.
Brain-infiltrating CD8+ T cells play a central role in the development of experimental cerebral malaria ( ECM ) during Plasmodium berghei ANKA infection of C57BL/6 mice. However, the mechanisms through which they mediate their pathogenic activity during malaria infection remain poorly understood. Utilizing intravital two-photon microscopy combined with detailed ex vivo flow cytometric analysis, we show that brain cells accumulate within the perivascular spaces of the brains of mice infected with both experimental and non-inducing malaria infections. We observed that parasite-accumulating cells are similarly activated to cause cerebral pathology, but abrogation of this interaction by targeted depletion of APC cells failed to prevent this event. Pathogenic cells were found to colocalize with rare apoptotic cells expressing CD31, a marker of endothelial cells, and this was a rare event and did not result in loss of cerebral vasculature or correspond with the extensive disruption to its integrity observed during the infection. Taken together, our data suggest that the arrest of T cell extrinsic factors is a unique signature of malaria parasite infection and implies an important role for the event in this process.
Tungiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the sand flea Tunga penetrans also known as jigger Flea. Communities living in precarious conditions in tropical and sub tropical countries bear the brunt of the infection. The main objective of this study was to determine the spatial distribution of tungiiasis in Vihiga County in western Kenya. A total of 437 participants, 5 years old and above were clinically examined for the presence of infection after consenting to take part in the study. Diagnosis was made following standard methods. This was a semi- structured questionnaire was administered to assess socio-demographic factors, housing, presence and ownership of animals, knowledge and practice related to the disease. Data were analyzed using bivariate and multivariate regression analysis. Overall prevalence was found to be ( 21. 5%; 95% CI: 17. 7–25. 3% ), age of participant ≤14 ( 27. 414; 10. 02–74. 99, no regular use of closed footwear ( 1. 98; 0. 987–3. 97 ) and common resting place inside the house. These findings suggest a need to design control strategies that are cost effective and easily accessible.
The development of vascular tissue was a critical innovation in the evolutionary history of plants, providing a mechanism for long-distance transport and structural support that was crucial for their colonisation of land. In order to fulfil these functions, vascular tissues must be appropriately positioned to ensure the continuity of the vascular strands, forming a transport network between distant tissues and organs. The vascular cylinder ( stele ) of Arabidopsis thaliana makes it an ideal system in which to study vascular patterning. Simulations based on realistic longitudinal sections of a root section predict both a longitudinal and a radial gradient of auxin and cytokinin, which we implement by a uniform constant influx as well as an efflux through the cross-sectional plane of study. Our simulations demonstrate the importance of hormone transport dynamics and effectively mutually inhibitory interactions for pattern robustness.
Animals can adjust to a changing environment by developing alternative behavioral phenotypes that improve their fitness; this phenomenon is known as “behavioral plasticity”. Environmental stimuli act directly on the nervous system and induces short-term changes in neural and endocrine activity, thus leading to behavioral alterations at different time scales. However, neuronal signaling pathways mediating the effect of external stimuli on transcriptional changes are largely unknown. Recently, we have demonstrated that the neuropeptide F ( NPF ) /nitric oxide ( NO ) signaling pathway plays a regulatory role in phase-related locomotor activity shift in the migratory locust, Locusta migratoria. Here we report that a conserved transcription factor, cAMP response element-binding protein B ( CREB-B ), is a key mediator involved in NOS signaling. Our study shows that this pathway is regulated by the transcription factors CAMP-A, PKC, PKA, and ribosomal protein ( R4 ). Furthermore, our study reveals that protein kinase A mediates the regulatory effects of the pathway. These findings highlight a precise signal cascade underlying environment-induced behavioral plasticicity.
The earliest stages of development in most metazoans are driven by maternally deposited proteins and mRNAs, with widespread transcriptional activation of the zygotic genome occurring hours after fertilization, at a period known as the maternal-to-zygotic transition ( MZT ). In Drosophila melanogaster, ZLD is a zinc-finger transcription factor that binds to a small number of genes that initiate sex determination, patterning, and other early developmental processes; and Zelda ( zLD ) plays a key role in their transcription activation. To better understand the mechanisms of Z LD activation and the range of its targets, we used chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput sequencing ( ChIP-Seq ) to map regions bound by Zelda before ( mitotic cycle 8 ), during and after ( late mitosis cycle 14 ) the M ZT. Although only a handful of gene transcription factors are transcribed at this early stage, most of these genes remain bound to the promoters and regulatory sequences that regulate patterned gene activation in the early embryo. This strong early association of Zelda with regions not active until the end of this cycle suggests that the zinc finger protein Zelda is not only required for the earliest wave of transcription but also has a major role to activate the genome.
Circadian clocks are endogenous oscillators conserved in nearly all living organisms that drive ∼24 hour cycles in physiology and behavior. In mammals, the circadian oscillator is composed of interconnected transcriptional translational negative and positive feedback-loops which generate circadian rhythms at the molecular level. Within this gene-regulatory network, a precise timing of gene expression, protein–protein interactions ( PPIs ) as well as posttranslational modifications is essential for sustaining circadian rhythm with normal dynamics. While these examples demonstrate the fundamental importance of precisely timed PPI for the regulation of circadian protein abundance rhythms, we are still far from a comprehensive view of the PPI network among circadian clock proteins and their dynamics in a time-of-day dependent manner. Here, using high-throughput Y2H interaction experiments in human hepatocytes we have systematically mapped 109 so far uncharacterized interactions and have successfully validated a sub-fraction via co-immunoprecipitation experiments. Our results suggest that circadian clocks dynamically connect many important cellular processes ( signal transduction, cell cycle, etc. ) contributing to temporal organization of cellular physiology in an unprecedented way.
Nematode polyprotein allergens ( NPAs ) are an unusual class of lipid-binding proteins found only in nematodes. They are synthesized as large, tandemly repetitive polyproteins that are post-translationally cleaved into multiple copies of small lipid binding proteins with virtually identical fatty acid and retinol ( Vitamin A ) -binding characteristics. In some species the repeating units are diverse in amino acid sequence, but, in ascarid and filarial nematinodes, many of them are identical or near-identical. ABA-1A, representing the most commonly-repeated unit within the Ascaris suum NPA, adopts a novel seven-helical fold comprising a long central helix that participates in two hollow four-sided bundles on either side. Discrete hydrophobic ligand- binding pockets are found in the N-terminal and C-coding bundles, and the amino acids sidechains affected by ligands of bacterial culture origin in one of its binding sites. This is the first mature unit of a naturally-occurring tandemlys-repetitive protein to be structurally characterized from any source, so represent potential targets for drug or immunological intervention.
Ciguatera is a type of fish poisoning that occurs throughout the tropics, particularly in vulnerable island communities such as the developing Pacific Island Countries and Territories ( PICTs ). After consuming ciguatoxin-contaminated fish, people experience potentially severe acute neurologic, gastrointestinal, and cardiac symptoms, with some experiencing chronic neurological symptoms lasting weeks to months. Unfortunately, the true extent of illness and its impact on human communities and ecosystem health are still poorly understood. A questionnaire was emailed to the Health and Fisheries Authorities of the Pacific Islands to quantify the extent and the range of disease. The data were analyzed using t-test, incidence rate ratios, ranked correlation, regression analysis and statistical analysis. There were 39, 677 reported cases from 17 Pacific islands from 1998–2008 compared to a reported annual incidence of 194 cases per 100, 000 people across the region from 1973–1983. This level of incidence exceeds prior estimates locally and globally, raising the disease to an acute and chronic illness with major public health significance. In parallel with environmental change, well-funded multidisciplinary research teams are needed to translate research advances into practical management solutions.
Chagas disease is caused by Trypanosoma cruzi. The persistence of the parasite is associated with the disease chronicity and the impairment of cellular immune response. It has been reported that the CD4+CD8+ T cell population expands in the chronic phase of disease. Few studies have focused on this subset of cells, and very little is known about the impact of antiparasitic treatment on the population. Thirty-eight chronic patients ( 20 asymptomatic and 18 symptomatic ) and twelve healthy controls were enrolled in this study. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were stimulated to analyze the production of cytokines and cytotoxic molecules in these patients before and after benznidazole treatment. Additionally, expression and co-expression of five inhibitory receptors were studied using a multiparameter flow cytometry technique. This type of study can lead to the identification of new biomarkers that are useful and necessary for evaluating the therapeutic efficacy of known and new drugs.
Phosphoinositides represent important lipid signals in the plant development and stress response. However, multiple isoforms of the proteins involved in each step of this pathway hamper our understanding of their pivotal roles in plant growth and development. In this study, we isolated and analyzed knockout mutants of multiple AtPLC isoform in Arabidopsis thaliana. Lipidomic profiling showed that the plc2-1 mutant increased levels of its substrates phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate ( PI4P ) and phospholipase C ( PLC2 ). Furthermore, the mutant showed hypersensitive response to ER stress as evidenced by changes in relevant phenotypes and gene expression profiles. Our results revealed the primary enzyme in phosphoinoside metabolism, its involvement in seedling growth, and an emerging link between phosphotipid signaling and the endoplasmic reticulum.
Reductionism assumes that causation in the physical world occurs at the micro level, excluding the emergence of macro-level causation. We challenge this reductionist assumption by employing a principled, well-defined measure of intrinsic cause-effect power–integrated information ( Φ ), and showing that, according to this measure, it is possible for a system to “beat” the macro level. Simple systems were evaluated for the value of Ω across different spatial and temporal scales by systematically considering all possible black boxes ( macro elements ) that consist of one or more micro elements over a single micro update. Cause-Effect power was evaluated based on the inputs and outputs of the black box, ignoring the internal micro element that support their input-output function. The framework is demonstrated on a simple biological system, the Boolean network model of fission-yeast cell-cycle, for which we identify stable local maxima during the course of its simulated biological function and provide a natural vantage point for scientific inquiries.
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the mitochondrial respiratory chain ( RC ) are primary signals that modulate cellular adaptation to environment, and are also destructive factors that damage cells under the conditions of hypoxia/reoxygenation relevant for various systemic diseases or transplantation. The important role of ROS in cell survival requires detailed investigation of mechanism and determinants of the ROS production. To perform such an investigation we extended our rule-based model of complex III in order to account for electron transport in mitochondria coupled to proton translocation, transmembrane electrochemical potential generation, TCA cycle reactions and substrate transport to mitochondrialria. It was found that the phenomenon of bistability, revealed previously as a property of complexes I and III, remains valid for the whole RC. Our analysis revealed a new insight into the mechanism of underlying processes governing the formation of free radicals that can transfer an unpaired electron to oxygen-producing superoxide and thus can initiate the generation of these ROS.
Intracellular transport is an essential function in eucaryotic cells, facilitated by motor proteins—proteins converting chemical energy into kinetic energy. Disruptions of the underlying transport mechanisms, often caused by mutations that alter single motor characteristics, are known to cause neurodegenerative diseases. For example, phosphorylation of kinesin motor domain at the serine residue is implicated in Huntington’s disease. In this article we report the effects of mutations of this nature on transport properties of cargo carried by multiple wild-type and mutant motors. Results indicate that mutants with altered stall forces might determine the average velocity and run-length even when they are outnumbered by wild type motors in the ensemble. It is shown that these mutants gain a competitive advantage and lead to an increase in average cargo displacement when the load on the cargo is in close proximity to the mutants stalling force or a multiple of its. Our method is easily implementable and we provide a software package for general use.
The ability to learn, to adapt one’s own behavior in order to optimize positive and avoid negative feedback, is central to all living beings. Animal learning may therefore be seen more as the process of selecting among, and adapting, potential behavioral policies, rather than mere strengthening of associative links. Calcium influx through high-voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and the CACNA1C gene have been associated with severe learning deficits and psychiatric disorders. Given this, we were interested in how specifically a selective functional ablation of Cacna1c gene would modulate the learning process. Using a detailed, individual-level analysis of learning on an operant cue discrimination task in terms of behavioral strategies, combined with Bayesian selection among computational models estimated from the empirical data we show that a knockout does not impair learning in general but has a much more specific effect: the majority of mice still managed to increase reward feedback across trials but did so by adapting an outcome-based strategy, while the most matched controls adopted the experimentally intended cue-association rule. Our results thus point to a quite specific role of a single gene in learning and highlight that more mechanistic insight could be gained by examining response patterns in a larger repertoire of potential behavior strategies.
Aedes aegypti mosquitoes infected with Wolbachia bacteria are currently being released for arbovirus suppression around the world. Their potential to invade populations and persist will depend on interactions with environmental conditions, particularly as larvae are often exposed to fluctuating and extreme temperatures in the field. In this study, we show for the first time that the wMel and wAlbB infections of Ae. aedesi exhibit incomplete cytoplasmic incompatibility in adults. We also show that these infections are not transmitted to the next generation when mosquitoes experience cyclical temperatures reaching a maximum of 37°C during development. These findings highlight the importance of temperature control in mosquito rearing.
Adenoviruses are important human pathogens that have been developed as vectors for gene therapies and genetic vaccines. Previous studies indicated that human infections with the human virus are self-limiting in immunocompetent hosts with evidence of some persistence in adenoid tissue. We sought to better understand the natural history of infection in various non-human primates and discovered that healthy populations of great apes ( chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, and orangutans ) and macaques shed substantial quantities of infectious virus in stool. Shedding in stools from asymptomatic humans was found to be much less frequent, comparable to frequencies reported before. Analyses of the new ape and chimpanzee sequences ( as well as the 4 chimpanzee and 2 gorilla genomes available from GenBank ) revealed evidence for cross species transmission events to have occurred in the evolution of B and E viruses.
The fundamental structural unit of chromatin is the nucleosome, where 146 or 147 base pairs of DNA wrap 1. 75 times around an octameric histone core. To function in cellular processes, DNA must be unwrapped, at least partially. Here, we carried out molecular dynamics simulations with an enhanced sampling method to obtain the free energy profiles for the outer superhelical turn of the DNA. We found a variety of conformational states, indicating that there are many potential paths to the inner superhelicdal turn unwrap, but the dominant path is likely asymmetric. At one end of a DNA, the first five bps unwrape at the same end with no increase in energy, after which a second five-pipre cycle starts. During the second cycle, 10-bps are unwranpped. This asymmetry indicates that interaction between DNA and the histones core is strengthened when either of these ends starts to unwrave. These results provide insight into the construction, disruption, and repositioning of nucleoomes, which are continuously ongoing during cellular process.
Lysosomes are acidic intracellular vesicles that provide an optimal physicochemical milieu for enzymatic activities, most of them catabolic, which need to be controlled. Among the catalog of oxidative stress-responsive genes is the Lipocalin Apolipoprotein D ( ApoD ), an extracellular lipid binding protein endowed with antioxidant capacity. Within the nervous system, cell types in the defense frontline, such as astrocytes, secrete ApOD to help neurons cope with the challenge. In this work, we perform a comprehensive analysis of Apodexosome traffic and demonstrate its role in lysolomal pH homeostasis and membrane stabilization under paraquat-induced stress. We also show that this lipoprotein-mediated control of lipid peroxide levels influences autophagy at several steps, slowing down the process and ultimately making it more efficient.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL, kala-azar ) caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani is endemic in the eastern part of the continent; the Horn of Africa and adjacent countries, namely Sudan, South Sudan, Kenya, Somalia, Uganda, Erithrea and Ethiopia. Here we report on the life cycle parameters and susceptibility of two P. orientalis colonies originating from different sites in Ethiopia: a non-endemic site in Melka Werer ( MW ), and an endemic focus in Addis Zemen ( AZ ). Marked differences in life-cycle parameters between the two colonies included distinct requirements for larval food and humidity during pupation. However, analyses using Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA ( RAPD ) PCR and DNA sequencing of cytB and COI mitochondrial genes did not reveal any genetic differences. F1 hybrids developed successfully with higher fecundity than the parental colonies. The presence of metacyclic promastigotes in thoracic midgut and the colonization of stomodeal valve by haptomonads were recorded by day five post-blood feeding. In both colonies, the infection rates were around 90%.
The Chinese government lists advanced schistosomiasis japonica as a leading healthcare priority due to its serious health and economic impacts, yet it has not been included in the estimates of the disease burden. Therefore, the quality of life and disability weight ( DW ) for the advanced cases of disease have to be taken into account. A patient-based quality-of-life evaluation was performed to assess the age-specific DW of patients' self-rated health scores on the visual analogue scale of a questionnaire. Of 506 candidates, 215 cases were confirmed as advanced, and 215 were evaluated. Most of them reported impairments in at least one health dimension, such as pain or discomfort ( 90. 7% ), usual activities ( 87. 9% ), and anxiety or depression. The overall DW was 0. 447. Age-related DWs were positively associated with loss of work capacity, psychological abnormality, ascites, or active hepatitis B virus, while splenectomy and high albumin were protective factors. These data could provide updated data for a revision of WHO's Global Burden of Disease ( GBD ) study, as well as for independent decision-making in P. R. China.
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is caused by the bite of a tsetse fly infected with the protozoa T. b. spp. –i. e., the parasite that causes sleeping sickness. The parasite is transmitted to humans through contact with animals and plants, such as plants and animals, and can cause severe disease. In this study, we examined the use of national census data ( 1999 ) to estimate population vulnerability and disability in Kenya's 7 tsetsse belts to assess the potential of infection in those areas. A multilevel study design estimated the likelihood of disability among individuals, nested within households and nested in areas of varying levels of poverty. Residents and recent migrants of working age were studied. We found that the impact on disability was conceptualised via two exposure pathways: directly from the mosquito bite resulting in infection or indirectly, as a potential for AAT takes land out of agricultural production and diseased livestock leads to livestock morbidity and mortality, contributing to nutritional deficiencies and poverty in rural areas across sub-Saharan Africa.
Hexamethylene bisacetamide ( HMBA ) is a potent inducer of cell differentiation and HIV production in chronically infected cells. However, its mechanism of action remains poorly defined. In this study, we demonstrate that HMMA activates transiently the PI3K/Akt pathway, which leads to the phosphorylation of HEXIM1 and the subsequent release of active positive transcription elongation factor b ( P-TEFb ) from its transcriptionally inactive complex. As a result, HIV transcription is induced via the activation of cellular signaling pathways. Thus, our studies reveal how the induction of viral production occurs in chronic infected cell lines.
Leishmaniasis is one of the most important human protozoan parasitic diseases worldwide, with a prevalence of 12 million infections and a further 350 million people living at risk across 98 countries. It mainly presents in two major clinical forms: 1 ) cutaneous ( ML ) or disseminated ( VL ) known to fatally disseminate to viscera. Mucosal disease is notorious for its poor response to commonly used treatments, such as antimony, and is often complicated by secondary bacterial or fungal infections. Very little is known about the pathogenesis of metastatic and mucosal Leishmania ( L. guyanensis ). We propose the technique as having great diagnostic and quantitation potential, especially ones not dependent on prior knowledge of viral sequence as LRVs show significant evolutionary divergence.
Enteropathogenic and enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EPEC and EHEC ) are closely-related pathogens that attach tightly to intestinal epithelial cells, efface microvilli, and promote cytoskeletal rearrangements into protrusions called actin pedestals. To trigger pedestal formation, both proteins use a type three secretion system for injecting effector proteins into mammalian host cells. The ability to generate these structures correlates with bacterial colonization in several animal models, but the precise function of actins in infection remains unclear. In this study, we characterized the colonization properties of the two pathogenic pathogens during infection of polarized epithelia. We found that both pathogens formed distinct bacterial communities, or “macrocolonies, ” that encompassed multiple host cell types. Tir and EspFU, as well as the host Arp2/3 complex, were all critical for the expansion of macrocolony over time. Unexpectedly, the bacterial assembly machinery drove faster bacterial motility to cell junctions, where bacteria formed a secondary pedestall on a neighboring cell and divided, allowing one of their daughters to disengage and infect the second cell. Collectively, these data reveal that the symbiotic relationship between the pathogen and its host provides an efficient method of cell-to-cell transmission.
Extracellular vesicle ( EV ) purification is challenging to standardise due to the diversity of sample composition producing EVs ( cell cultures and body fluids ), the quality of EV preparation and the simplicity of isolation. In contrast, size exclusion chromatography ( SEC ) has been used to successfully purify EVs from other pathogens, highlighting there is not an agreed research community ‘gold standard’ for EV isolation in the absence of a gold standard. This research has highlighted SEC methods with functional assays as the methodology of choice for helminth pathogen EV studies and application development.
Systems biology proceeds through repeated cycles of experiment and modeling. One way to implement this is reverse-engineering, where models are fit to data to infer and analyse regulatory mechanisms. This requires rigorous methods to determine whether model parameters can be properly identified. We use reverse engineering to study post-transcriptional regulation in pattern formation in the early embryo of the vinegar fly Drosophila melanogaster. As a case study, we analyse expression of gap genes Krüppel, knirps, and giant, which are expressed in broad, overlapping domains along the embryo's antero-posterior ( A–P axis ) axis. Our results demonstrate that the uniqueness and specificity of a fitted model is not required for patterning in this system, but is necessary for proper control of protein levels.
Rotavirus is a major cause of diarrhea worldwide and exhibits a pronounced small intestinal epithelial cell ( IEC ) tropism. Both human infants and neonatal mice are highly susceptible, whereas adult individuals remain asymptomatic and shed only low numbers of viral particles. Here, we investigated the age-dependent mechanisms of the innate immune response to rotaviruses in an oral mouse infection model. Expression of Toll-like receptor ( Tlr ) 3 was low in the epithelium of suckling mice but strongly increased during the postnatal period inversely correlating with the infection susceptibility, viral shedding and histological damage. Adult mice deficient in either the adaptor molecule Trif or the antiviral host response exerted significantly higher virulence of proinflammatory and anti-viral genes as compared to wild-type animals. A major contribution of non-hematopoietic cell compartment was detected in adult animals and in human small intestine biopsies. Thus, upregulation of intestinal TLR3 expression during infancy might contribute to the disease susceptibility of neonate individuals.
Autism Spectrum Disorders ( ASD ) are the most common genetic disorders in the world. Because of the promise of identifying novel ASD genes via rare variants, and the potential downstream implications regarding treatment, an ambitious exome sequencing study has been implemented including nearly 2000 case and control subjects sequenced at two genomic centers. The results indicate that thousands of individuals are required to obtain genome wide significance. In this ARRA autism sequencing consortium ( AASC ) study, data have been produced by two sequencing centers using different methods to produce sequence and to call variants from it. Therefore an initial goal was to ensure the distribution of rare variation was similar for data from different centers, but this proved straightforward by filtering called variants by fraction of missing data, read depth and balance of alternative to reference reads. Next we addressed how the data and/or results from the centers should be combined. We found evidence that population structure can confound case-control studies by the clustering of common variants in ancestry space; yet, unlike some recent studies, for these data we found that principal component-based analyses were sufficient to control for ancestry and produce test statistics with appropriate distributions. Our results suggest that standard gene tests will require much larger samples of cases and controls before being effective for gene discovery, even for a disorder like ASD.
Mycetoma is a chronic infectious granulomatous disease that is frequently reported in tropical and subtropical climates between 30°N and 15°S of the equator. In Sudan it accounts for over 70% of all cases. Many patients are exposed to the causative agent, however only a small number develop infection. Chitin, which is the main component of fungal cell wall, can trigger the human immune system. We investigated the association between 4 of these polymorphisms and the incidence of M. myceteoma in a Sudanese population. Polymorphisms were found in the genes encoding for two enzymes, chitotriosidase and AMCase, in reaction to exposure to this agent. The polymorphism resulting in decreased activity of either one or both of them was associated with increased odds of eumycetusoma.
Herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) has provided the prototype for viral latency with previously well-defined acute or lytic and latent phases. More recently, the deep quiescence of latency has been questioned with evidence that genes can be transcribed in this state. However, to date the only evidence for these transcripts might be translated has come from immunological studies that show activated T cells persist in the nervous system during latency. Here we use a highly sensitive Cre-marking model to show that latency is less clearly defined in two significant ways. First, around half of the spread leading to latently infected sites occurred beyond the initial acute infection and second, we show direct evidence of a promoter driving protein expression.
Misfolding and aggregation of host proteins are important features of the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson's disease and prion diseases. In all these diseases, the misfolded protein increases in amount by a mechanism involving seeded polymerization. Here using dual-staining immunohistochemistry, we compared spread of PrPSc from three well-known scrapie strains ( 22L, RML and ME7 ) at early preclinical times post-infection using mRNA from thalamus and cortex. Surprisingly, despite the cellular differences observed in the pattern of cell specificity, all three strains had similar patterns of upregulated genes associated with neuroinflammation. Gene upregulation correlated with activation of both astroglia and microglia detected in early disease prior to vacuolar pathology or clinical signs.
The 3D organization of chromosomes is crucial for regulating gene expression and cell function. Many experimental and polymer modeling efforts are dedicated to deciphering the mechanistic principles behind chromosome folding. Chromosomes are long and densely packed—topologically constrained—polymers. The main challenges are therefore to develop adequate models and simulation methods to investigate properly the multi spatio-temporal scales of such macromolecules. Here, we propose a generic strategy for self-avoiding polymers on a lattice that allows, simultaneously, to drastically reduce the computation time while maintaining the polymer in the same topological regime and thus preserving the correct structural and dynamical properties. We show that such strategy not only leads to the accurate description of the steady-state but also tracks the dynamics at different coarse-graining strategies. This strategy allows a strong power-law gain in numerical efficiency and offers a systematic way to define reliable coarse models for chromosomes and to go beyond the current limitations by studying long chromosomes during an extended time period.
Genetic variants in cis-regulatory elements ( CREs, e. g., transcription promoters, enhancers, or insulators ) frequently influence the quantity and spatiotemporal distribution of gene transcription. Recent interest in expression quantitative trait locus ( eQTL ) mapping has paralleled the adoption of genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) for the analysis of complex traits and disease in humans. However, the mechanistic interpretation of these associations is still largely unknown. In this study, we address this need by performing an analysis in three parts: first we identified the cell type specificity of the expression QTLs from eleven studies performed in seven different cell types; then we integrated the data from these studies with gene expression-specific CRE data; and finally we built a set of classifiers to predict how cell specific CRE variants can be used to annotate the associations in the absence of ENCODE data. We anticipate that such integrative, predictive modeling of cell specificity will improve our ability to understand the molecular basis of human complex phenotypic variation.
Despite 30 years of research, a vaccine capable of providing protection against human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) has yet to be described. As headway toward a protective vaccine continues, the practicalities of large-scale vaccine production must be addressed. Beginning in 2009, we learned that multiple broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( bN-mAbs ) recognized glycan-dependent epitopes on the Env gp120. This type of glycosylation substantially alters the mass and net charge of Envs compared to molecules with the same amino acid sequence but possessing mature, complex ( sialic acid–containing ) carbohydrates. Since cell lines suitable for biopharmaceutical production that limit N-linked glycophosphorylation to mannose-5 ( Man5 ) or earlier intermediates are not readily available, production of vaccine immunogens displaying these glycans has been challenging. Here we report the development of a stable suspension-adapted Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell line that limits glycoolytes to Man 5 and earlier intermediateates. The ability of the MGAT1− CHO cellline to limit the glycoprotein binding to prototypic G-protein-specific antibodies to the V1/V2 domain and V3 stem ( e. g., PGT128 and 10–1074 ) suggests that it will be a useful substrate for the assembly of H1-HIV vaccines.
Parasitic nematodes are responsible for devastating illnesses that plague many of the world's poorest populations indigenous to the tropical areas of developing nations. Among these diseases is lymphatic filariasis, a major cause of permanent and long-term disability in people worldwide. Proteins that do not have mammalian counterparts represent targets for therapeutic inhibitor discovery. One promising target is trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase ( T6PP ) from Brugia malayi. We determined the X-ray crystal structure and determined five residues important for binding and catalysis. Structure-guided mutagenesis, combined with kinetic analyses using a designed competitive inhibitor, identified a conserved active site. The model indicates a substrate-binding mode wherein shape complementarity and van der Waals interactions drive recognition. These results suggest that development of broad-range anthelmintic and antibacterial therapeutics employing this platform may be possible.
Tumours exhibit spatially heterogeneous, unique vascular architectures across individual samples, cell-lines and patients. This inherently disorganised collection of leaky blood vessels contribute significantly to suboptimal treatment efficacy. Preclinical tools are urgently required which incorporate the inherent variability and heterogeneity of tumours to optimise and engineer anti-cancer therapies. In this study, we present a novel computational framework which incorporates whole, realistic tumour samples extracted ex vivo to efficiently simulate vascular blood flow and interstitial fluid transport in silico for validation against in vivo biomedical imaging. Our model couples Poiseuille and Darcy descriptions of vascular and intra- and extravascular fluid dynamics, and incorporates spatically heterogenous blood vessel lumen and permeabilities to generate accurate predictions of the contrasting fluid dynamic response between samples.
HIV is known to spread efficiently both in a cell-free state and from cell to cell, however the relative importance of this mode in natural infection has not yet been resolved. This gap in knowledge poses a conceptual problem for neutralizing antibody based HIV vaccine and entry inhibitor design, as it remains uncertain whether only the dominant transmission mode needs to be targeted with equal efficacy and if so which. Here we present a comprehensive in vitro analysis of antibody activity during cell–cell transmission using specifically tailored experimental strategies which enable unambiguous discrimination between the two transmission routes.
Visual attention has many effects on neural responses, producing complex changes in firing rates, as well as modifying the structure and size of receptive fields, both in topological and feature space. Several existing models of attention suggest that these effects arise from selective modulation of neural inputs. Here we propose a simple mechanistic model that explains how a top-down attentional modulation, falling upon the upper areas of the visual hierarchy, can produce all the previously mentioned effects. Our model requires only the existence of modulatory feedback connections between areas, and short-range lateral inhibition within each area. This produces competitive effects that are automatically scaled to receptive field size in any given area, without modifying model parameters.
Larval hematopoiesis is a disease caused by the protozoan parasite Drosophila melanogaster. The larval hemocyte ( blood cell ) homeostasis is controlled by a small group of specialised cells, the posterior signalling centre ( PSC ), which acts in a non–cell-autonomous manner, perhaps via Hh signalling, to maintain JAK/STAT signalling in prohemocytes, thus preserving the multipotent character necessary for these cells to adopt a lamellocyte fate upon parasitisation. In this report, on the basis of a knock out generated by homologous recombination, we show that a short type I cytokine-related receptor, CG14225/Latran, is required for switching off janus tyrosine kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription ( TAKs ) signalling. Latran forms heteromers with Domeless, a receptor related to mammalian transcription factor GP130, and antagonises this pathway in dose-dependent manner. Our analysis thus reveals a novel role for a nonsignalling receptor in controlling a dedicated cellular immune response.
Genetic recombination is an important process during the evolution of many virus species and occurs particularly frequently amongst begomoviruses in the single stranded DNA virus family, Geminiviridae. As in many other recombining viruses it is apparent that non-random sequences of DNA are disreputable by natural selection. Here we investigate patterns of sequence exchange that occur over 120 day long experimental infections of tomato plants with two different viruses, Tomato yellow leaf curl virus and Tomato leaf curled Comoros virus. We show that over-all patterns are extraordinarily complex and present clear evidence that factors such as local degrees of similarity but not genomic secondary structure strongly influence where recombinants displaying disrupted intra-genomic interactions are disrupted. Crucially, we find that selection favoring the preservation of co-evolved longer-range protein-protein and protein DNA interactions is so strong that its imprint can be used to identify the exact sequence tracts involved in these interactions.
Nucleosomes are the basic repeat units of eukaryotic chromatin, forming preferentially on stretches of DNA that – by virtue of their sequence composition – are more amenable to being wrapped around the histone core. Consequently, changes at the sequence level can bring about changes in nucleosome positioning and occupancy, providing a simple example of how genetic changes can locally alter epigenetic states.
Proteins are inherently dynamic entities and exist not as single structures, but as non-uniform distributions of multiple conformer populations. The protein dynamism plays an intricate role in defining the structure, function and evolution of individual proteins. Conformational diversity of proteins should guarantee conformational transitions, which due to its importance, could possibly be associated with evolutionary conserved traits. Normal mode analysis, based on a coarse-grained model of the protein, can provide the required information to explore these features. Herein, we present a novel procedure to identify key positions sustaining the structural diversity associated to ligand binding. This procedure is applied to an adequate refined dataset of 188 paired protein structures in their bound and unbound forms. Firstly, normal modes are selected according to their corresponding overlap with structural distortions introduced by ligands. We find a negative correlation between the effects of mutations on these normal mode subspaces and position-specific conservations obtained from multiple sequence-structure alignments. Positions whose mutations are found to alter the most are defined as key position, that is, dynamically important residues that mediate the binding conformation change.
Metabolic pathways used by Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) to establish and maintain infections are important for our understanding of pathogenesis and the development of new chemotherapies. To investigate the role of fructose-1, 6-bisphosphate aldolase ( FBA ), we engineered an strain in which the essentiality for growth and persistence was regulated by anhydrotetracycline ( atc ). Depletion of fba resulted in a failure to replicate in both the acute and chronic phases of infection in vivo, and loss of viability in vitro when cultured on single carbon sources. In vitro studies of Δfba, however, revealed that the ability to co-catabolize glucose was condition-dependent and could be overcome by a specific balance of glucose and butyrate, which was dependent on a strain lacking fBA. These data thus not only expand our knowledge of the metabolic pathways that govern growth or persistence of Mtbs, but also provide new targets for drug development.
Peroxiredoxins ( PRXs ) are ubiquitous enzymes that use a redox active cysteine residue ( peroxidatic Cys ) to reduce a broad spectrum of substrates. In Leishmania and related trypanosomatids, which lack the highly efficient enzymes catalase and selenium-glutathione ( GPX ), members of this family are regarded as key elements of the peroxide-reduction machinery. Here, we investigated the functional relevance of one of such enzymes, the mitochondrial 2-Cys PEROXiredoxin ( mTXNPx ). We found that mtxnpx− parasites were unable to thrive in a murine model of infection. Unexpectedly, however, this was not due to lack of a peroxinase activity, as these behaved like controls when exposed to oxidants added exogenously or generated by macrophages during phagocytosis ex vivo. Moreover, a protein that functions as a chaperone was competent in rescuing the non-infective phenotype. These findings indicate that the essential function played by m TXNPX during infection is not related to its peroxyidase activities. Rather, they provide a novel function for the enzyme that may explain the impaired infectivity of null mutants.
The Histoplasma urine antigen ( HUAg ) is the preferred method to diagnose progressive disseminated histoplasmosis ( PDH ) in HIV patients in Mexico. In 2007, the IMMY ALPHA EIA was approved for clinical for on-site use, and therefore useful for regions outside the United States. However, this test is considered inferior to the MVista-HUAG which is only available on referral. Therefore, we aim to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the assay. We conducted a multicenter, prospective, diagnostic test study in two secondary and eight tertiary-care facilities in the region of Mexico City. The results show that the test has a very high specificity ( 97% ), it is easy to perform onsite without the need of sophisticated laboratory equipment and is faster than other methods.
Human diarrhea is the third leading cause of infectious deaths worldwide and is responsible for ∼1. 8 million deaths in children under age five each year. Bacteria, protozoa and viruses have all been implicated as causal agents. However, it is estimated that on average up to 40% of diarrhea cases are of unknown etiology, suggesting that unrecognized infectious agents, including viruses, remain to be discovered. To our knowledge, no metagenomic investigation of the viral diversity found in human diarrhea has previously been described. In this study, we characterized the eukaryotic viral communities present in diarrhea specimens from 12 children suffering from acute diarrhea. Using a strategy of “micro-mass sequencing” that entails minimal starting sample quantity ( <100 mg stool ), minimal sample purification, and limited sequencing ( 384 reads per sample ) we detected known enteric viruses as well as multiple sequences from putatively novel viruses with only limited sequence similarity to viruses in GenBank.
Aedes-borne arboviruses are responsible for increasing worldwide morbidity and mortality at an alarming rate. While new technologies are emerging to reduce transmission risk, evidence-based control for the principle vector, Aedes aegypti, is still lacking. Considering this, it remains important to describe how epidemics move through populations in space and time, as well as document those demographics most at risk. In Dominican Republic, the appearance of Zika virus cases that closely followed a large dengue epidemic provided an opportunity to study the different transmission drivers behind these two flavivirus. Retrospective datasets were used to collect information on the populations of risk and descriptive statistics were compared to the outbreaks on a national scale. Expectedly, box plots showed that 75% of the Zika cases were reported in those aged <20 years while Zika infections were more widely dispersed among the population. Dengue attack rates were marginally higher among males at 25. 9 per 10, 000 population vs. 21. 5 for females. R0 calculations stratified by sex also showed a significantly higher metric among females: 1. 84. 2. 87. However, GBS attacks were slightly higher in males. Evidence suggests that community awareness campaigns, through influencing short-term health seeking behaviour, remain the most plausible mechanism behind increased reporting among women of reproductive age, although biological susceptibility cannot yet be ruled out. The use of associated proxy syndromes to mitigate confounding of passive surveillance data by targeted health campaigns may be of limited use.
Poly ( ADP-ribosyl ) ation plays a key role in a wide range of cellular responses including DNA repair, chromatin modification, control of transcription and cell death. PARP proteins have been identified in plants and animals as well as bacteria, fungi and double-stranded DNA viruses. However, little is known about the function of PARPs in response to DNA damage. We have found that, in contrast with animals, Arabidopsis thaliana PAR1 ( At4g02390 ) makes the greatest contribution to plant immune responses, including restriction of pathogenic Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato growth and reduction of infection-associated DNA double–strand break abundance. For poly glycohydrolase ( PARG ) enzymes, we find that the activity or abundance of plant PARPARP2 is significantly different from their animal counterparts, suggesting the likelihood of substantial differences in regulation.
In the central nervous system, most synaptic connections are glutamatergic and often referred to as central synapses. Different neurons in the nematode C. elegans have proven extremely valuable in identifying conserved regulators of synapse formation, including motor neurons, HSN neurons and mechanosensory neurons. In this study, we identified several kinases that are likely to be part of a new MAP kinase pathway that suppresses axon termination defects, but not synaptic branch defects. This pathway includes: MIG-15 ( MAP4K ), NSY-1, MAP3K, JKK-2K and JNK- 1. Transgenic overexpression is sufficient to impair the formation of neuron-neuron, central synaptic branches in wild-type animals. Interestingly, habituation results are consistent with the same pathway functioning as a parallel opposing pathway to RPM-3. These findings indicate that a common mechanism of synaptic dysfunction in Alzheimer’s disease can be found in this pathway.
A subset of transcription factors like Gli2 and Oct1 are bipotential — they can activate or repress the same target, in response to changing signals from upstream genes. Some previous studies implied that the sex-determination protein TRA-1 might also be bipOTential; here, we confirm this hypothesis by identifying a co-factor, and use it to explore how the structure of a switch changes during evolution. First, null mutants reveal that C. briggsae TRRAP ( TRansformation/tRanscription domain-Associated Protein ) acts as part of the Tip60 Histone Acetyl Transferase complex to promote the expression of Cbr-fog-3, a gene needed for spermatogenesis. Second, epistasis tests indicate that it also works with TRA1, both to activate and control the sperm/oocyte decision. These observations demonstrate that this activity occurs in parallel to the regulation of TRA2, which controls the levels of another repressor. Third, these two regulatory branches of this switch have been conserved throughout Caenorhabditis, but their relative importance has changed dramatically during recent evolution, so that a novel trait can evolve by distinct but compensatory changes. Thus, striking differences in the relationship between the two halves of an evolutionary switch can arise.
Answering this question promises to shed substantial new light on many complex systems, biological and non-biological. A common and attractive intuition is that dynamical complexity consists in the coexistence of differentiation and integration ( subsets of a system are dynamically distinct ), yet each conscious scene is experienced as a coherent whole ( integration ). This intuition may actually account for ( and not merely correlate with ) fundamental aspects of consciousness. Several measures now exist which operationalize the above intuition under different assumptions and with varying practical applicability. In this paper, we critically evaluate ‘integrated information’, a candidate measure that has received significant recent attention. We present new versions of this measure, which are both theoretically well-grounded and, in contrast to previous versions, practically applicable given time-series data.
The spread of Rhodesian human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) in Uganda in recent years has increased concerns of a potential overlap with the Gambian form of the disease. Recent research has aimed to increase the evidence base for targeting control measures by focusing on the environmental and climatic factors that control the spatial distribution of human infection. One recent study used simple logistic regression methods to explore the relationship between prevalence and several social and environmental variables in two most recently affected districts of Uganda. Using a generalised linear geostatistical model, which is used in a Bayesian framework to account explicitly for spatial autocorrelation and incorporate uncertainty in input data and model parameters, we are able to demonstrate a more rigorous analytical approach, potentially resulting in more accurate parameter and significance estimates and increased predictive accuracy. Predictive mapping indicates an increased risk of high prevalence in the future in areas surrounding livestock markets, demonstrating the importance of livestock trading for continuing disease spread.
The consensus that complexity begets stability in ecosystems was challenged in the seventies, a result recently extended to ecologically-inspired networks. The approaches assume the existence of a feasible equilibrium, i. e. with positive abundances. However, this key assumption has not been tested. We provide analytical results complemented by simulations which show that equilibrium feasibility vanishes in species rich systems. Our results suggest that a general understanding of ecosystem dynamics requires focusing on the interplay between interaction strength and network architecture.
Coxiella burnetii, the etiological agent of ‘Q fever’, has caused several large scale outbreaks within Europe over recent years, and contributes an ongoing human and livestock health burden in many regions. While there has been increasing attention to Q fever epidemiology in high-income settings, a recent systematic review highlighted significant gaps in our understanding of the prevalence, spatial distribution and risk factors for exposure to the pathogen across Africa. This research aimed to provide a One Health assessment of cattle and humans in parts of Western and Nyanza Provinces, Western Kenya. A cross-sectional survey was conducted to assess the relationships between a range of socio-economic, demographic and environmental factors and seroprevalence in both humans and animals. Cattle obtained from market ( as opposed to those bred in their homestead ) and those residing in areas with lower precipitation levels had the highest risk of sero-positionivity, variations were observed between ethnic groups and frequent livestock contact ( specifically grazing and dealing with abortion material ) was also a risk factor.
Schistosomiasis is considered the most important of the human helminthiases in terms of morbidity and mortality, and genetic manipulation of this developmental stage with MLV is feasible. Functional genomic approaches could aid in identifying the role and importance of these newly described genes. Vasa, an adenosine 5′-triphosphate ( ATP ) -dependent DEAD-box RNA helicase, is an archetypal metazoan germ cell specific marker, a prototypic marker of primordial germ cells and the germ line in the Metazoa. Using bioinformatics and quantitative real time PCR, 33 putative Drosophila-like helicases exhibiting conserved motifs that characterize helases, were identified in S. mansoni genome. Moreover, three of them exhibited vasa–like sequences; phylogenetic analysis confirmed the three genes—termed Smvg1, Smvlg2 and Smlvg3—were members of a family of ATP-dependent RNAs. Whole mount in situ hybridization ( WISH ) analysis revealed that the two genes were transcribed in a posterior ovary where the oocytes mature. Germ-cell specific expression of schisto-derived genes should provide an informative landmark for germ-line transgenesis of helms, etiologic agents of major neglected tropical diseases.
Heart valve disease is a major clinical problem worldwide. Cardiac valve development and homeostasis need to be precisely controlled. The Hippo pathway is an evolutionarily conserved pathway from Drosophila to human which regulates cell proliferation, differentiation, stem cell fate determination and organ size in multiple organs and tissues, while its role in valve formation and morphology maintenance remains unknown. Here we found that VGLL4 is expressed in endothelial and interstitial cells in the valve region at the post-EMT stage and was maintained till the adult stage. Tissue specific knockout of VGll4 in different cell lineages revealed a significant reduction of heart valve malformation with expanded expression of YAP targets. We further semi-knockout the function of this transcription cofactor in heart valves, and found hyper proliferation of arterial valves was significantly constrained. These findings suggest that the role of the transcriptional cofactor in vasculature is important and manipulation of these components would be a potential therapy for preventing the progression of congenital heart disease.
Since the initial description of the genomic patterns expected under models of positive selection acting on standing genetic variation and on multiple beneficial mutations—so-called soft selective sweeps—researchers have sought to identify these patterns in natural population data. Indeed, over the past two years, large-scale data analyses have argued that soft sweeps are pervasive across organisms of very different effective population size and mutation rate—humans, Drosophila, and HIV. Yet, others have evaluated the relevance of these models to natural populations, as well as the identifiability of their models relative to other known population-level processes. Here, we look to reconcile these opposing results by carefully evaluating three recent studies and their underlying methodologies. We find that all three examples are prone to extremely high false-positive rates, incorrectly identifying hard sweeps under both hard sweep and neutral models. Furthermore, these findings represent a necessary response to the growing tendency of invoking parameter-heavy, assumption-laden models and neglecting best practices regarding the construction of proper demographic null models in order to explain observed patterns of genomic variation.
Female Aedes aegypti mosquitoes are the principal vector for dengue fever, causing 50–100 million infections per year, transmitted between human and mosquito by blood feeding. Female mosquitoes use a multi-sensory approach to guide a series of behaviors collectively known as host-seeking behavior. Head Peptide-I is a candidate peptide mediating this suppression, but the mechanism by which this mechanism alters mosquito behavior and the receptor through which it signals are unknown. We carried out a cell-based calcium imaging assay to identify a panel of peptides and identified NPYLR1 as the candidate receptor for sNPF neuropeptides that are known to signal through a mechanism called the “nucleotide-like” Y-Like receptor. Our results suggest that other signaling mechanisms must exist for this important behavioral regulation.
Schistosomiasis is the most important water impounding disease and one of the diseases classified by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) as neglected. It is widespread in Nigeria and has been estimated that 240 million people required treatment globally. The aim of this study is to identify the areas with suitable conditions for the transmission of disease on the basis of physical and environmental factors derived from satellite imagery and spatial analysis for Akure North Local Government Area ( LGA ) of Ondo State. Nigeria. This was done through methodology multicriteria evaluation ( MCE ) using Saaty’s analytical hierarchy process. AHP is a multi-criteria decision method that uses hierarchical structures to represent a problem and makes decisions based on priority scales. In this research, a weighted overlay analysis was used after each factor was given the appropriate weight derived through the analytical hierarchical process, which correlated strongly with observations from field study.
Streptococcus pneumoniae ( pneumococcal ) meningitis is a common bacterial infection of the brain. The cholesterol-dependent cytolysin pneumolysin represents a key factor, determining the neuropathogenic potential of these bacteria. Here, we demonstrate selective synaptic loss within the superficial layers of frontal neocortex of post-mortem brain samples from individuals with pneumonia. A similar effect was observed only when the bacteria expressed the pore-forming LDL-competent Chromosporin. Exposure of acute mouse brain slices to only Pore C57BL/6 animals at disease-relevant, non-lytic concentrations caused permanent dendritic swelling, dangritic spine elimination and synaptic damage. Pneumolysis increased glutamate levels within mouse brains. In mouse astrocytes, the release of glutamate in a calcium-independent manner. We demonstrate for the first time the occurrence of synaptic pathology and demonstrate that a bacterial cytoxin can dysregulate the control of neurotransmitters, inducing excitotoxic damage to the nervous system.
Human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) are small, non-enveloped, double stranded DNA viruses associated with major human cancers. As such there is a strong interest in developing new means, such as vaccines and microbicides, to prevent HPV infections. Developing the latter requires a better understanding of the infectious life cycle of HPVs. In this study, we used chemical biology approaches to reveal that cell cycle progression through mitosis is critical for HPV infection. Using infectious wild type HPV16 particles containing the intact viral genome, G1-synchronized human keratinocytes as hosts, and early viral gene expression as a readout for infection we learned that the recipient cell must enter early prophase for early infection to take place. Late M phase inhibitors had no effect on infection, whereas early M-phase cells cycle inhibitors efficiently prevented it. These results provide one reason why HPV initially establishes infections in the basal compartment of stratified epithelia.
Penicillium marneffei is the most important thermal dimorphic fungus causing systemic mycosis in China and Southeast Asia. While miRNAs are increasingly recognized for their roles in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in animals and plants, the mode of transmission, and pathogenic mechanisms are largely unknown. Based on the genome sequence, we hypothesize that miRNA-like small RNAs may be expressed in the filamentous fungus. Sequence analysis revealed 24 potential milRNA candidates, including 17 candidates in mycelial and seven in yeast phase. Two genes, dcl-1 and qde-2, encoding putative Dicer and Argonaute proteins, were identified in P. marneprophyi. The expression levels of three predicted targets of PM-milR-M1 were upregulated in knock-down strain. Our findings provided the first evidence for differential expression of milRNas in different growth phases of thermal nematode, Neurospora crassa, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum and the entomopathogenic fungus, Metarhizium anisopliae and Cryptococcus neoformans.
In 2013, Zika virus ( ZIKV ) emerged in French Polynesia and spread through the Pacific region between 2013 and 2017. Several potential Aedes mosquitoes may have contributed to the spread of the zika virus in this region. In this study, we evaluated the vector competence of Ae. aegypti, the main arbovirus vector in the region, and aedes polynesiensis, vector of lymphatic filariasis and secondary vector for dengue virus. Our results revealed a low transmission competence for the two populations tested during the 2013–2017 outbreak.
The long non-coding RNA ( lncRNA ) Xist is a master regulator of X-chromosome inactivation in mammalian cells. Modeling the conformation of this RNA depends on thermodynamically stable secondary and higher-order structures that RNAs can form in the context of a cell. We built upon recent advances in RNA secondary structure mapping and modeling to develop Targeted Structure-Seq, which combines chemical probing of RNA structure in cells with target-specific massively parallel sequencing. By enriching for signals from the RNA of interest with high coverage of the target RNA with relatively few sequencing reads, this approach provides a targeted and scalable approach to analyze RNA conformformation. This approach allowed us to probe the full-length Yist RNA in mouse cells and identify new structural elements that are evolutionarily conserved, including a new element proximal to the C repeats.
Genome-wide association studies have succeeded in uncovering many common genetic variants underlying complex diseases, raising hope for individualized risk prediction based on genomic profiles. However, it is controversial whether such tests will be useful clinically. Appropriate statistical measures to evaluate the performance of genetic disease prediction models are required. In this study, we develop a novel unifying statistical framework that connects a large variety of predictive indices together. We show that, given the overall disease probability and the level of variance in total liability ( or heritability ) explained by the genetic variant, the prediction metrics, such as the AUC, mean risk difference between cases and non-cases, net reclassification improvement ( ability to declassify people into high- and low-risk categories ), or the risk at any percentile, are close when the outcome is rare. The results from simulations match very well with our theoretical estimates. Finally we apply the methodology to nine complex disease, evaluating the predictive power of a genetic test based upon known susceptibility variants for each trait.
Trypanosoma brucei gambiense ( g-HAT ) is a vector-borne, neglected tropical disease, which puts 70 million people living in sub-Saharan African countries at risk. The card agglutination test ( CATT ) has been the most widely used screening test for trypanomiasis for decades, despite a number of practical limitations that were partially addressed by the introduction of rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ). However, current R DTs are manufactured using native antigens, and are challenging to produce. In this study, we evaluated the accuracy of a new diagnostic test, the SD HAT BIOLINE 2. 0 ( “RDT2” ), in comparison with an existing test that is produced exclusively using recombinant antigenes. Sensitivity of the tests was lower than previously reported, as they identified cases from partially overlapping subpopulations. All three tests were significantly more sensitive in passive than in active screening. Combining two or three screening tests resulted in a markedly increased sensitivity: When the diagnostic accuracy was greater than 99. 2%, it was as sensitive as, but slightly less specific than.
Chagas disease, a neglected tropical disease that affects millions of Latin Americans, has been effectively controlled in Guatemala after multiple rounds of indoor residual insecticide spraying ( IRS ). However, only a few foci remain with persistent Triatoma dimidiata infestation. One such area is the municipality of Comapa, Department of Jutiapa in the southeastern region of Guatemala, where control interventions appear less effective. We carried out three cross sectional entomological and serological surveys to evaluate a decade of vector control activities. Baseline surveys were conducted in 1999, 2001, 2007 and 2015, and in women of child bearing age ( 15–44 years ) only in 2015. After multiple round of IRS applications ( 2001–2 ) and intermittent focal spraying of infested houses until approximately 2012, we detected 42 ( 10. 8% ) with antibody to T. cruzi. Seroprevalence in school-aged children declined significantly from 10% ( 1999 ) to 1%, but remained >10%. Our results indicate that the continued risk for vector-borne and congenital transmission pose a threat to the 2022 ChagAS disease elimination goal. Systematic integrated vector management and improved ChAGAS screening and treatment programs are needed to reach the elimination target in regions with high levels of transmission.
Citrobacter rodentium is a natural mouse pathogen that causes attaching and effacing ( A/E ) lesions, which are characterised by intimate bacterial adherence to host intestinal epithelial cells, effacement of microvilli, and reorganisation of the host actin cytoskeleton to form pedestal-like extensions of cells beneath the adherent bacteria. We previously reported the complete genome sequence of C. rationium ICC168, where we found that the genome displayed many characteristics of a newly evolved bacterium. In this study, through PFGE, sequencing of isolates showing variation, whole genome transcriptome analysis and examination of mobile genetic elements, we find that, consistent with our previous hypothesis, the genomic architecture of this pathogenic species is unstable as a result of repeat-mediated, large-scale genome recombination and because of active transposition of DNA elements such as the prophages. The genome of an additional strain, EX-33, was also found to be stable and that most of these inactivating mutations were common to both strains and likely to have occurred early on in the evolution. Our findings draw parallels with the emergence of other bacterial pathogens and conclude that C. rodention may have emerged alongside the development of inbred mice as an important model organism for human disease.
Stochastic fluctuations in gene expression give rise to distributions of protein levels across cell populations. Despite a mounting number of theoretical models explaining stochasticity in protein expression, we lack a robust, efficient, assumption-free approach for inferring the molecular mechanisms that underlie the shape of the protein distributions. Here we propose a method for determining sets of biochemical rate constants that govern chromatin modification, transcription, translation, and RNA and protein degradation. We ask whether the rates of these underlying processes can be estimated accurately from protein-to-protein distributions, in the absence of any limiting assumptions. To do this we derived analytical solutions for the first four moments of a protein distribution, ( 2 ) found that these four moment equations completely capture the shapes of proteins distributions from the moments. Using this method we find that most proteins are consistent with a large number, or meaningful ratios of rate constant sets. In some cases our method identified all the underlying rates.
Monkeypox virus ( MPXV ) is an orthopoxvirus with a broad-host range capable of infecting many animal species. The global vaccination campaign that eradicated smallpox utilized vaccines that are also efficacious, but require 2 administrations for complete protection. However, the vaccination campaigns ended in Africa in 1980, meaning that a large proportion of the population is currently unprotected against the virus and, barring that, interrupting person-to-person spread. In the present study, a new vaccination strategy approach based on three recombinant bovine herpesviruses ( BoHV-4 ) was successfully constructed by recombineering, and their capacity to express their immune-dominant antigens was demonstrated. This work demonstrated the efficacy and use of this vaccine-vector platform as a vaccine vector platform.
The mRNA cap is the major mRNA decay pathway in many eukaryotes, including trypanosomes. After deadenylation, mRNAs are decapped by the nudix hydrolase DCP2 of the decapping complex and finally degraded by an RNA 5’ exoribonuclease. Here, I show that the parasites use an ApaH-like phosphatase ( ALPH1 ) as their major protein. The protein was recently identified as a novel protein and as involved in mRNA binding. We have recently purified starvation stress granules from trypansomes, a heterogenic group of flagellated protozoa, indicating a connection between the two enzymes. RNAi experiments confirm that a recombinant, N-terminally truncated ALHP1 protein, but not a catalytically inactive mutant, sensitises the capped RNA to yeast Xrn1. These data suggest that this enzyme differs from Dcp2 by leaving more than one phosphate group at the mRNA's 5' end.
Pancreatic development involves an elaborate process of morphological events accompanied by a complex pattern of cellular differentiation and lineage selection. These events are mediated in great part by tissue interactions, signaling pathways and directed cascades of gene expression that determine cell fate. Thus, in an effort to design improved protocols, current research efforts aim at elucidating the genetic programs underlying pancreatic endocrine cell lineage determination and/or reprogramming, an approach that could be of interest for the development of alternative therapies for Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus ( T1DM ).
The initiation of eukaryotic DNA replication is tightly regulated so that it occurs at most once per cell cycle. Preventing re-initiation throughout the genome is particularly challenging because each individual origin must be tightly controlled if a genome contains hundreds to thousands of replication origins. To minimize the probability of de-initiating from so many origins, cells use a battery of regulatory mechanisms that reduce the activity of the replication initiation proteins. Given the global nature of these mechanisms, it has been presumed that all origins are inhibited identically. However, origins do not replicate with diverse efficiencies when the mechanisms are partially inactivated. We have identified novel genetic elements that are necessary for preferential recruitment of Mcm2-7 from two origins and sufficient to confer preferential reactivation on a heterologous origin. Our findings identify a local level of control in the block to Re-Initiation. This local control creates a complex genomic landscape of potential genomic alterations that is revealed when global mechanisms preventing replication are compromised.
Invasive amebic diseases caused by Entamoeba histolytica are increasing among men who have sex with men ( MSM ) due to oral-anal sexual contact. However, the efficacy of luminal treatment in preventing recurrence, which can arise by relapse or re-infection, has not yet been assessed rigorously. In this study, we retrospectively analyzed 170 HIV-1 infected Japanese patients with IA, together with genomic typing of the cyst form of E. histoebiasis in 14 of these patients, and compared the clinical and epidemiological features of IA in the other 165 patients. Treatment with metronidazole ( 750 mg t. i. d. for 10 days ), followed by a lumineum agent ( paromomycin or diloxanide furoate ) to eliminate intestinal colonization, was successful in all 165 cases. The results emphasize the difficulty of preventing IA recurrences without educational approach to prevent new infection even after successful treatment with luminescent agents.
Gambian sleeping sickness ( HAT ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense transmitted by riverine species of tsetse. A global programme aims to eliminate the disease as a public health problem by 2020 and stop transmission by 2030. In the South of Chad, the Mandoul area is the focus of Gambian Sleeping sickness where around 100 cases were still diagnosed and treated annually until 2013. Pre-2014, control of this lethal disease relied solely on case detection and treatment, which lead to a gradual decrease in the number of cases. Because of the persistence of transmission and detection of new cases, we assessed whether the addition of vector control to the control programme could further reduce transmission. We found that a population of 38674 inhabitants lived in this focus in November 2013 and 2600 targets were deployed in early 2014, 2015 and 2016. This work shows that tiny targets reduced the numbers and on the incidence of Sleeping Sick by 70. 4% ( 95% CI: 51–95% ) compared to active and passive screening, and 8. 5% to enhanced passive detection. Model predictions anticipate that elimination as an important public-health problem could be achieved by 2018 if vector and screening continue at the present level and, furthermore, there may have been virtually no transmission since 2015.
Strongyloidiasis is caused by the soil-transmitted nematode Strongyloides stercoralis. The parasite is globally distributed in the tropics and occurs in some parts of the sub-tropics, although it has also been reported in more temperate climates, like southern Europe and North America. It has been recently estimated that 370 million people are infected by this parasite; however, this prevalence is most probably underestimated, since the majority of studies are focused on other soil transmitted helminthes, with high percentage of high risk travelers ( missionaries and humanitarian workers ). In this study, we describe the epidemiological, clinical and microbiological characteristics of patients with imported strongyloids in Spain, as well as to identify potential factors related to parasite burden and treatment success.
Vaccination is an effective method to protect against infectious diseases. An important consideration in any vaccine formulation is the inoculum dose, i. e., amount of antigen or live attenuated pathogen that is used. Higher levels generally lead to better stimulation of the immune response but might cause more severe side effects and allow for less population coverage in the presence of vaccine shortages. A combination of mathematical models with experimental data can help determine the impact of a given vaccine and setting. We illustrate the concept of using data and models to inform vaccine dose determination for vaccines, wby fitting a mathematical model to data from influenza A virus ( IAV ) infection of mice and human parainfluenza virus infection in cotton rats. Our findings illustrate that both protection and morbidity do not necessarily increase monotonically with increasing inoculum dose. Once vaccine design goals are specified with required levels of protection, our proposed framework can be used to determine an optimal vaccine.
In response to nitrogen deprivation, filaments of the cyanobacterium Anabaena undergo a process of development into a one-dimensional pattern consisting of single, specialized micro-oxic cells in which nitrogen fixation takes place-heterocysts-, separated by about 10–15 photosynthetic vegetative cells. While neighboring cells can attain different developmental fates, cellular decisions may be driven by tiny differences in the concentrations of morphogens and other molecular species between cells or noise. Noise, extensively studied in unicellular organisms, has been shown to play a functional role in cell-to-cell variability in gene expression, and it must be tightly controlled during the development to avoid its amplification and thus erroneous irreversible cell defects. In this paper we address these issues and characterize the noise of expression of HetR, a transcription factor essential for heterocyst differentiation, both under steady-state growth in nitrogen-rich conditions and at different times following nitrogen starvation. We found that expression fluctuations of hetR in nearby cells are coupled, with a characteristic spatial range of circa two to three cells, setting the scale for cellular interactions along a filament. Our results show that proteins involved in these basic ingredients combine together to form an underlying pattern of spatial correlations, on which the developmental pattern may later be built.
Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is transmitted predominantly by Culex mosquitoes, but several other genera may participate in certain circumstances including humans, birds, pigs and other mammals by bite. Mosquitoes are responsible for the transmission cycle in nature by several species of mosquito vectors and vertebrate hosts. In this study, we performed a serological survey in pigs in China and compared the replication kinetics of seven recently-isolated isolates including three GI strains and four GIII strains to compare their replication efficiency in vitro and in vivo, with the aim of gaining insight into the reasons for this genotype shift. We observed that GI viruses replicated more efficiently in chicken and porcine cells, particularly in DF-1 cells with titers reaching 22. 9–225. 3 fold higher than those of G III strains. These results conform to the hypothesis that the enhanced replication of GI virus in avian cells would have resulted in higher exposure and therefore infection in mosquitoes. Based on these findings, the authors speculated that increased transmission efficiency of the GI-inoculated ducklings in birds could result in an increased infection of mosquitoes in the birds-mosquito-birds enzootic transmission.
Candida albicans is a fungal commensal of the human gastrointestinal tract with the potential to cause both superficial mucosal and life-threatening invasive infections. As a result, it has been the subject of intensive study and, accordingly, this work has informed our understanding of its pathobiology as well as fundamental paradigms of infection biology. One genetic approach that has not been widely utilized in the study of this important pathogen is genetic interaction or epistasis analysis. To understand the details of how the transcription factors function together to regulate biofilm formation, we have adopted a systematic approach based on generating all possible double heterozygous mutants of each transcription factor ( TF ) and quantitatively analyzing the genetic interactions between them. Overall, the network is highly susceptible to genetic perturbation with all six network TFs all showing alterations in their gene product relative to wild type. We have also found that expression of ROB1 is dependent on both auto-regulation and cooperative interactions with other network Ts. Taken together, our approach has provided new insights into the functions of individual TF and the overall network topology in its function.
Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by several species of digenetic protozoan parasites belonging to genus Leishmania. Asparagine synthetase ( AS ) is responsible for the conversion of aspartate into Asn in an ATP-dependent manner, using ammonia or glutamine as a nitrogen source. There are two structurally distinct types of AS: the strictly ammonia dependent, type A, and the type B, which preferably uses glutamate. Notably, AS-A was claimed to be essential for parasites survival. Appealingly, it was reported that AS was essential in Trypanosoma spp. and L. donovani, making it a promising drug target candidate. In the work herein we demonstrate that the parasite is able to use both ammonia and glutamines as nitrogen donors. Moreover, we have successfully generated LiASA null mutants by targeted gene replacement in parasites. These parasites do not display any significant growth or infectivity defect. Indeed, a severe impairment of in vitro growth was only observed when null mutant were cultured in asparaginative limiting conditions. Altogether our results show that despite being important for parasite survival, growth and infectiveness in normal and in vivo conditions, the amino acid transporters ( AAT ) repertoire has a high interspecific variation, regarding number, affinity, specificity and capacity.
Toxocariasis is one of the most prevalent helminthiasis infections worldwide. The majority of infections remain undiagnosed in tropical settings where seroprevalence ranges from 35 to 42% in rural areas and from 2 to 5%, in urban areas. Infection could also occur as accidental ingestion of embryonated eggs from contaminated water, vegetables, fruit or organs from paratenic hosts ( cows, sheeps or chickens ). A systematic review was conducted without date and language restriction in the following electronic databases: MEDLINE ( PubMed ), Ingenta Connect, Science Direct, Scopus, HighWire, Scielo and the database of The Institute of Neuroepidemiology and Tropical Neurology of Limoges University. Two investigators independently conducted the search up to November 2017, finding a positive association between epilepsy and toxocara spp. Seropositivity. In the restricted analysis ( WB as confirmatory or diagnostic test, younger population, and population–based studies ) the association was constantly reported. Meta-regression showed no statistically significant association with covariates and outcome. New surveys supported the associations, mainly population-based surveys. Further research should be performed to understand the physiopathological mechanisms.
The DNA damage response ( DDR ) plays an essential role in determining cell fate after DNA double strand breaks ( DSBs ) by arresting the cell cycle to allow evaluation of DNA integrity and signaling for repair or apoptosis. The DDR maintains genomic stability and is an indispensable defense mechanism against cell death or tumor development. MiRNAs have recently emerged as endogenous gene regulators, targeting the protein components of the DDR pathways. We describe a new ATM–mediated DDR pathway involving microRNA ( miRNA ) : irradiation ( IR ) activates ATM, which leads to the downregulation of miR-335, a miRNA that targets CtIP, an important trigger for DNA end resection in homologous recombination repair ( HRR ). In two patient-derived lymphoblastoid cell lines with decreased post-IR colony survival and BRCA1 foci formation, we demonstrate that an ATM-dependent CREB–miR335–CtIP axis influences the selection of HRRs.
When it comes to interpreting others' behaviour, we almost irrepressibly engage in the attribution of mental states ( beliefs, emotions… ). Such "mentalizing" can become very sophisticated, eventually endowing us with highly adaptive skills such as convincing, teaching or deceiving. Here we take inspiration from recent works in behavioural economics and experimental psychology, which investigate sophisticated mentalizing processes. We ask whether such sophisticated recursive beliefs subtend learning in terms of the depth of our recursive representations, as in "I think that I think…" We asked participants to play repeated games against artificial ( Bayesian ) mentalizers. Our results show that people believe either that they were playing against each other, or that their opponent was gambling like in a casino. Although both framings are similar deceives, participants win against the artificial mentalising agents in both the social framing and the non-social framing. Moreover, our results suggest that participants' choice sequences are best explained by sophisticated cognitive learning models only in social frames.
Biological networks provide additional information for the analysis of human diseases, beyond the traditional analysis that focuses on single variables. Gaussian graphical model ( GGM ), a probability model that characterizes the conditional dependence structure of a set of random variables by a graph, has wide applications in the study of biological networks, such as inferring interaction or comparing differential networks. However, existing approaches are either not statistically rigorous or are inefficient for high-dimensional data that include tens of thousands of variables for making inference. In this study, we develop a computationally fast algorithm to implement the estimation of G GM and obtain p-value and confidence interval for each edge of the graph. We demonstrate that the algorithm is faster by several orders of magnitude than the current implemented algorithm for Ren et al. without losing any accuracy. The algorithm has been implemented in an R package named “FastGGM”.
Striatal medium spiny neurons ( MSNs ) inhibit each other through a local network of collaterals, receive excitatory projections from the cerebral cortex and are the only cells which project outside the striatum. Because of their inhibitory structure the MSN network is often thought to act selectively, transmitting the most active cortical inputs downstream in the BG while suppressing others. However studies of neural response to sensory stimuli and behavioural task events throughout the brain have found that cells display large highly repeatable variations in firing rate on slow behaviourally relevant timescales. It has been shown that such activity emerges only at realistic connectivities of and only when the cortical driving activity is realistically sized. Here we suggest a reason for this. We show that the local MSNS network can generate stimulus dependent activity patterns for long time periods after changes in cortical excitation. In this low connectivity regime all cells constantly switch between activity and quiescence. This activity depends on network parameters and find that it is neither too stable to respond in a dynamically complex temporally extended way to cortical variations, nor is it too unstable to be able to react in such a consistent repeatably way. Rather, we discuss how these properties may be utilized in temporal delayed reinforcement learning tasks.
Polarized growth is maintained by both polarized exocytosis, which transports membrane components to specific locations on the cell cortex, and endocytic internalization. Despite functional links between these two transport pathways, they are generally considered to be separate events. Using live cell imaging, in vivo and in vitro protein binding assays, as well as pyrene-actin polymerization assay, we show that the yeast Rab GTPase Sec4p is a well-established regulator of polarization with cortical actin patch assembly. In addition to being an activator required for coat assembly and an inhibitor by regulating the timing of subsequent steps in the late stages of exo-synucleation, Sec 4p also plays a key transitional mechanism for unleashing the rapid sequence of final events in polarized cell types.
Acetaminophen ( APAP ) -induced liver injury in mice is a model for drug-induced hepatic necrosis in humans. A precondition for improved strategies to disrupt and/or reverse the damage is the zonation hypothesis: a configuration of NZ-Mechanism ( as distinct from being described mathematically ) that is instantiated within a virtual mouse. This software analog is engineered to be quantitatively and qualitatively biomimetic across all anatomical, hepatocellular, and cell biology features currently believed relevant to challenging the NAPQI zonal hypothesis. We discovered that variants of the merged mechanism provide plausible quantitative explanations for the considerable variation in 24-hour necrotic scores among 37 genetically diverse mouse strains following a single toxic acetaminoproteins dose.
T. cruzi is the causative agent of Chagas or American Trypanosomiasis, a disease that affects around 8–10 million people in Latin America. In non-endemic areas, and in the absence of blood transfusion risks, the infection is increasing its epidemiological importance, because of the migration of women to North America and Europe. The mother-to-child parasite transmission rate in different endemic areas is variable: 10% in Paraguay, 3. 4–8. 6%, 2. 3% and 7–11%. Sometimes these vertical transmission rates are underestimated, as a high percentage of children do not complete the necessary one-year follow-up to confirm the parasite infection.
We propose a biophysical model of Escherichia coli that predicts growth rate and cell composition from an effective, coarse-grained representation of its genome. We assume that E. coli is in a state of balanced exponential steady-state growth, growing in an temporally and spatially constant environment, rich in resources. In a series of experiments, we have measured the growth and rRNA-to-protein ratio for seven strains engineered by the Squires group. These experiments show that growth rates markedly decreases for strains with fewer than six copies of this operon. Using the model we were able to reproduce these measurements and propose further experiments to test its validity.
The plant hormone abscisic acid ( ABA ) is induced by abiotic stresses and plays essential roles in plant responses and adaptation to those stresses, in addition to regulating several developmental processes, including seed development and maturation, dormancy and germination, seedling growth, and floral transition. RADIALIS-LIKE SANT/MYB 1 ( RSM1 ) belongs to a MYB-related subfamily of transcription factors. Previous transcriptome analysis suggests that R SM1 may be involved in many biological processes including plant development, stress responses, hormone signaling. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the roles of this transcription factor remain obscure. In this study, we show that down-regulation or up-regulation of the expression of RADICALIS LITERIA 1 in Arabidopsis alters the sensitivity of seeds and cotyledon greening to the stress response of abbiotic stress, NaCl and mannitol. We also demonstrate that HY5/HYH, a regulatory module of ABI5 HOMOLOG ( HYH ), may function as a regulator module and independently or somehow dependently regulate aBA-dependent gene expression by HY, thereby improving the adaption of plants to their environment.
Mitochondrial complex I, the largest and most complicated proton pump of the respiratory chain, links the electron transfer from NADH to ubiquinone to the pumping of four protons from the matrix into the intermembrane space. Recent progress in the X-ray structural analysis has confirmed that the redox reactions are confined entirely to a hydrophilic peripheral arm of L-shaped molecule and take place at a remarkable distance from membrane domain as revealed by single particle analysis. The analysis of subunit composition of holo and subcomplex by three complementary proteomic approaches revealed that two ( ND4 and ND5 ) of three subunits with homology to bacterial Mrp-type Na+/H+ antiporters that have been discussed as prime candidates for harbouring the prototon pumps were missing in nb8mΔ. Nevertheless, this is consistent with the idea that a long helical transmission element bridging the two subdomains is involved in operating the pump-sites.
Fever is an initial, nonspecific, acute-phase response to infections, with survival chances beginning to decrease when fever exceeds 39. 5°C, suggesting the existence of an upper limit for the optimal fever range. We have focused here on the in vitro changes in binding affinities for two antibody-antigen immune complexes of two widespread, fever-inducing infectious diseases. To this end, we made use of antigens from dengue virus serotype 2 DENV-2 and from a protozoan pathogen, namely the 19-kDa carboxy-terminal region of merozoite surface protein 1 ( MSP119 ) from Plasmodium vivax, and their corresponding monoclonal IgG antibodies. These results suggest a thermal activation step for fever antibodies binding to antibodies from pathogens that induce fever.
Cortical flow is a fundamental and ubiquitous form of cellular deformation that underlies cell polarization, cell crawling and multicellular tissue morphogenesis. Cortical flows originate within a thin layer of cross-linked actin filaments and myosin motors, in which active stress produced by motor activity is opposed by passive resistance. Continuous flow requires local remodeling through crosslink unbinding and/or filament disassembly. How this tunes stress production and dissipation, and how this in turn shapes long range flow, remains poorly understood. Here, we construct and analyze a computational model for cortical flow based on minimal requirements for production of contractile stress: Asymmetric filament compliance, spatial heterogeneity of motor activities, reversible crosslinks and filament turnover. We characterize how these dependencies combine to determine overall rates of flow. Our analysis predicts that filament lifetimes are shorter than both τc and τm, the dependencies of effective viscosity and steady state stress cancel one another, such that flow speed is insensitive to filament flux. These results provide a framework for understanding how animal cells tune cortical flows through local control of network remodel.
Seedling establishment is inhibited on media containing high levels ( ∼6% ) of glucose or fructose. Genetic loci that overcome the inhibition of seedling growth on high sugar have been identified using natural variation analysis and mutant selection, providing insight into sugar signaling pathways. In this study, a glucose and fructose-sensing QTL ( GSQ11 ) was mapped through selective genotyping and confirmed in near-isogenic lines in both Col and C24 backgrounds. Allelism tests and transgenic complementation showed that a single-nucleotide polymorphism ( SNP ) in the Col ANAC060 gene confers sugar insensitivity and was dominant over the sugar-sensitive C 24 allele. Genomic and mRNA analyses revealed that the short version of the gene is found in ∼12% of natural Arabidopsis accessions. Glucose induces a truncated protein that lacks the transmembrane domain ( TMD ) required for abscisic acid ( ABA ) signaling, and ABI4 expression was also attenuated. This negative feedback from nuclear Anac060 on AAB signaling results in sugar sensitivity.
Cyclic di-GMP ( c-di-gMP ) is a small molecule and presumably freely diffusible in the bacterial cytoplasm. It regulates a wide range of functions from virulence, to motility, cell cycle and biofilm formation. The molecular basis of second messenger signaling relies on an array of proteins that synthesize, degrade or bind the molecule to produce coherent functional outputs. In this study, we show an example of how this signaling pathway gains output specificity in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We observed the occurrence of a new gene, hsbD, in a genomic region next to the flagellar genes cluster. This gene encodes the anti-anti-sigma factor HsbA and the HptB pathway is tightly interlinked with the Gac/Rsm cascade. Our study shows that the rewiring of the pathway into the C-DGC is dependent on the original interaction between the two proteins and on their control of dynamic localization at the cell poles.
Humans can learn and store multiple visuomotor mappings ( dual-adaptation ) when feedback for each is provided alternately. Moreover, learned context cues associated with each mapping can be used to switch between them. However, very little is known about the associative learning between cue and required mapping, and how learning generalises to novel but similar conditions. To investigate these questions, we developed a Bayesian learning model in which we combine ideas from optimal motor control and Mixture-of-Experts generalisation. We hypothesised that, although learning the associations requires explicit awareness of the cues’ role, participants apply the mapping corresponding to the trained shape that is most similar to it, consistent with the current one. Furthermore, using previous findings of learning, the model predicts that learning should slow down with increased numbers of training pairs, which was confirmed by the present results.
The cerebellum ensures smooth and well-timed execution of ongoing motor tasks, making use of mainly two input channels: ( 1 ) the mossy fibers ( MF ) carrying information from many brain regions and thought to provide contextual information e. g. regarding sensory input from different modalities as well as ongoing brain activity and proprioceptive information, and ( 2 ) climbing fibers, which carry information about sensory events such as a touch sensation on a specific part of the skin. Because of its clear cellular structure and the impact it has on motor control, a computational model has inspired a number of machine learning approaches. We investigated what factors primarily determine the size of a climbing fiber burst. Our findings suggest that the phase-dependency in the burst size is present but limited and that charge flow between soma and dendrite is a major determinant. From our findings it follows that phenomena like cell ensemble synchrony can have a big effect on the growth of olivary cells.
Iron is essential for all known life due to its redox properties; however, these same properties can also lead to iron toxicity in overload through the production of reactive oxygen species. Robust systemic and cellular control are required to maintain safe levels of iron, and the liver seems to be where this regulation is mainly located. Iron misregulation is implicated in many diseases and as our understanding of the iron metabolism improves, the list of these iron-related disorders grows. Recent developments have resulted in greater knowledge of how iron is regulated in the body and have led to a detailed map of its metabolism. However, a quantitative understanding at the systems level of exactly how its components interact to produce tight regulation remains elusive. A mechanistic computational model of human liver iron regulation was constructed based on known mechanisms of regulation and on their kinetic properties, obtained from several publications. The model was then quantitatively validated by comparing its results with previously published physiological data and it is able to reproduce multiple experimental findings. This validation provides a sense of confidence that the model is indeed appropriate for understanding liver regulation, for predicting the response to various environmental perturbations.
The nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) regulates molecular traffic across the nuclear envelope ( NE ). Selective transport happens on the order of milliseconds and the length scale of tens of nanometers; however, the mechanism remains elusive. Central to the transport process is the hydrophobic interactions between karyopherins ( kaps ) and Phe-Gly ( FG ) repeat domains. We have established a coarse-grained model of the NPC structure that mimics nucleocytoplasmic transport. The model predicts that the first-passage time of a 15 nm cargo-complex is about 2. 6±0. 13 ms with an inverse Gaussian distribution for statistically adequate number of independent Brownian dynamics simulations. Moreover, we show a high degree of permeability to inert cargos, implying the defining role of cytosolic filaments in the selectivity barrier.
The nonhuman primate ( NHP ) model is often the best experimental model for testing interventions designed to block infection by human pathogens, such as HIV, tuberculosis, and malaria. A physiological model may require the use of a limiting infectious dose of the infectious agent, where only a fraction of animals become infected upon any given challenge. Determining the challenge dose is critical to the success of an experiment: using too-high or too low a dose may lead to false negative results as well as wasting resources and resources. Here I define an optimized protocol for defining the pathogen that infects 50% of time ( AID50 ) ; other challenge doses can be easily calculated from the same data.
Sensory systems adapt their neural code to changes in the sensory environment, often on multiple time scales. Here, we report a new form of adaptation in a first-order auditory interneuron ( AN2 ) of crickets. We characterize the response of the AN1 neuron to amplitude-modulated sound stimuli and find that adaptation shifts the stimulus–response curves toward higher stimulus intensities, with a time constant of 1. 5 s for adaptation and recovery. The spike responses were thus reduced for low-intensity sounds.
Prions are infectious proteinaceous particles that cause fatal neurodegenerative diseases, including Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( BSE ), and chronic wasting disease ( CWD ). Prions contain PrPSc, a protease-resistant detergent-insoluble β-sheet-rich conformer of the normal cellular protein PrPC, which is an essential and possibly the sole component of infectious prions. By serial protein misfolding cyclic amplification, prion infectivity can be propagated in vitro. However, the mechanisms of binding and conversion remain unclear. Using a combination of Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell expression, protein purification and reconstitution sPMCA techniques, we engineered a novel PrpSc molecule lacking the central polybasic domain ( ΔC ) that could bind to and induce quantitative conversion of all the poly basic domain mutant substrates into PrPsSc molecules. Remarkably, PBD-deficient PPs displayed diminished or absent biological infectionivity relative to wild-type Prion proteins, despite their ability to seed the same PrPSCA reactions of normal mouse brain homogenate. These results provide a unique opportunity to dissect the relationship between the ability of wild type and prPC molecules to propagate in vivo.
Animals are able to reach a desired state in an environment by controlling various behavioral patterns. Identification of the behavioral strategy used for this control is important for understanding animals’ decision-making and is fundamental to dissect information processing done by the nervous system. However, methods for quantifying such behavioral strategies have not been fully established. In this study, we developed an inverse reinforcement-learning ( IRL ) framework to identify an animal “savioral strategy” from behavioral time-series data. We applied this approach to C. elegans thermotactic behavior; after cultivation at a constant temperature with or without food, fed worms prefer, while starved worms avoid the cultivation temperature on a thermal gradient. Our framework can reveal the most preferable/optimal state for the animals and, more importantly, how animals reach that state. Thus, our approach can be applied to a wide range of behavioral studies.
The contribution of photosynthetic algae to the maintenance of global ecological health is well recognized. However, ‘omics’ level characterization of algae is sorely lacking when compared to organisms related to human health or plant biotechnology. Here we report the draft genome sequence of Chrysochromulina tobin ( Prymnesiales ), a marine species well known for its calcified scales and forms large blooms that are visible from space. Genes important to fatty acid synthesis, modification, and catabolism show distinct patterns of expression when monitored over the circadian photoperiod. This study provides new information to resolve elusive evolutionary relationships among the deeply-rooted haptophyte algal taxon. Additionally, genomic information will enhance commercial endeavors that target aquaculture feed stocks, nutraceuticals, plastics or biofuel production.
Breast cancers that are “triple-negative” for the clinical markers ESR1, PGR, and HER2 typically belong to the Basal-like molecular subtype. Defective Rb ( RB1 ), p53 ( TP53 ) and Brca1 pathways are each associated with triple-positive breast cancers. In this study, we show that the combined inactivation of the two canonical tumor suppressor proteins ( pRb ) is sufficient to suppress the physiological cell death of mammary involution and predisposes highly penetrant, metastatic adenocarcinomas.
Aedes aegypti ( L. ) is the primary vector of dengue, the most important arboviral infection globally. Until an effective vaccine is licensed and rigorously administered, control remains the principal tool in preventing and curtailing the disease. Accurate predictions of vector populations are required to assess control methods and develop effective population reduction strategies. A primary determinant of adult mosquito population density concerns the types and number of containers in a given environment. Adult production is unevenly distributed across potential larval development sites. In most cases, a few key containers are responsible for a large proportion of the pupal, and thus adult, production. We hypothesize that, holding other attributes constant, containers more frequently used as oviposition sites are more likely to produce adult mosquitoes consistently and at a higher rate. An ecological approach, accounting for development site density, is appropriate for predicting population levels and developing efficient vector control programs.
Animals integrate external cues with information about internal conditions such as metabolic state to execute the appropriate behavioral and developmental decisions. Information about food quality and quantity is assessed by the intestine and transmitted to modulate neuronal functions via mechanisms that are not fully understood. Here we show that the conserved Target of Rapamycin complex 2 ( TORC2 ) coordinates larval development and adult behaviors in response to environmental cues and feeding state in the bacterivorous nematode C. elegans. During development, pheromone, bacterial food, and temperature regulate expression of the daf-7 TGF-β and insulin-like peptide in sensory neurons to promote a binary decision between reproductive growth and entry into the alternate dauer developmental stage. We also demonstrate that genetic variation affects food-dependent developmental phenotypes and identify quantitative trait loci ( QTL ) associated with these traits. Together, these results suggest that TORCs2 acts as a hub for communication of feeding information from the gut to the brain, thereby contributing to modulation of neuronal function by internal state.
Pluripotent stem ( ES ) cells are a remarkable model for the study of early development and hold promise as a source for cell replacement therapies. To successfully manipulate ES cells in culture, it is important to understand the mechanisms by which ES cell maintain their self renewal and pluripotency. In this paper, we developed a novel computational algorithm, CompMoby, which combines analyses of sequences both aligned and non-aligned between different genomes with a probabilistic segmentation model to systematically predict short DNA motifs that regulate gene expression. We show that several of the predicted sequences are novel regulatory elements of gene transcription in mouse ES and embryonic germ cells. Our results suggest that this systematic approach can be broadly applied to understanding transcriptional networks in mammalian species.
Replication of non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses requires the continuous supply of the nucleoprotein ( N ) in the form of a complex with the phosphoproteins ( P ). In vesicular stomatitis virus ( VSV ), a prototypical rhabdovirus, the N0-binding region of P contains transient helical elements and may thus constitute a short molecular recognition element ( MoRE ) that folds upon binding to its partner. The structure of this complex also suggests a mechanism for the initiation of viral RNA synthesis.
Gap junctions ( GJs ) underlying the operation of electrical synapses are found in both the central nervous system and the sensory system. However, their functional role still remains elusive despite extensive studies. Here we address this problem in the vertical system ( VS ) network of the fly visual system, where recent studies have identified that in this sensory network, individual neurons primarily use the axonal voltage to communicate with one another. This provides a unique opportunity to characterize the function of these neurons in sensory information processing. Our information theoretical analysis of a realistic VS network model shows that within 10 ms following the onset of visual input, the presence of axons of VS cells enables the VS system to efficiently encode the axis of rotation, θ, of its visual behavior, such as banked turns in evasive maneuvers.
Enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) is one of the major causative agents of hand, foot, and mouth disease, a common febrile disease affecting mainly young children in the Asia-Pacific region. Recently we identified human P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 ( PSGL- 1 ) as a cellular receptor for entry and replication of EV 71 in leukocytes. In the present study, we generated a series of mutants and an inhibitor of sulfation. We identified the post-translational modifications that are critical for the binding of S- and O-glycosylated tyrosine sulfated proteins to the N-terminal region of E-Golgi receptor 5 ( CCR5 ), which are required for binding to selectins and chemokines. Our results revealed that the amino acids 42–61, Y48 and Y51, are important for PSG-binding to Pselectins, but not for EVO-mediated viral replication in Jurkat T cells. This is the second direct example of a modification of specific virus-receptor interactions that mediates viral entry in target cells in a dose-dependent manner.
Leishmaniasis is a serious global health problem affecting many people worldwide. While patients can be treated with several agents, drug toxicicty and the emergence of resistant strains render available treatments ineffective in the long run. Inhibitors of the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) have been demonstrated to exert anti-pathogen properties in controlling infection with Leishmania major. We investigated the therapeutic efficacy of three different m TOR inhibitors, GSK-2126458 and KU-0063794, in a therapeutic setting in BALB/c mice, which had received an intrafootpad injection. Footpad swelling and parasite burden were assessed, and cytokine production by mouse splenocytes and phenotypic changes in draining lymph node cells were evaluated. Treatment with a clinically relevant dosing or with the drug alone dramatically lowered both the footpads in vitro as judged by 3-Diphenyltetrazolium bromide ( MTT ) assays and electron microscopy. Consequently, the IFN-γ:IL-4 production ratio was elevated, suggesting a T helper-type 1 ( Th1 ) -skewed cytoskeleton profile. Finally, CD69, an early activation marker, on splenic and lymph nodes CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was enhanced. Taken together, our findings suggest that the beneficial effects of such inhibitors stem from their immunomodulatory properties. Therefore, their adjuvanticity may also be considered in vaccination strategies against the parasite.
Natural transformation is a widespread biological property shared by dozens of bacterial species which plays a key role in evolution by generating genetic diversity through horizontal gene transfer. In the human pathogen Neisseria meningitidis, natural transformation promotes gene reassortment on a massive scale with up to 200 genes frequently differing between isolates. Natural transformation, which has been studied for almost a century and was key to the discovery that DNA carries genetic information, is thought to function as follows: Free DNA is first bound by surface-exposed receptors that are likely to be components of type IV pili ( Tfp ) ( or evolutionarily related competence pseudopili ), such as the minor pilin ComP. Here, we report the functional analysis of the DUS-ComP interdependence which is reported here. We show that the enhancement of transformation seen in the presence of Dus is entirely dependent on the ability of a homolog in one of these commensals ( N. subflava ) to bind its cognate DNA receptor and mediate transformation. Together, these findings shed new insight into the earliest step in natural evolution, and reveal an elegant mechanism for modulating horizontal genetic transfer between competent species sharing the same niche.
Cytokinesis is the final stage of the eukaryotic cell cycle, when a mother cell separates into two daughter cells. In fungal cells cytokineis requires coordinated closure of a contractile actomyosin ring ( CAR ) and synthesis of specialized cell wall structure known as the division septum. Many CAR proteins have been identified and characterized, but how these molecules interact with the septic synthesis enzymes is unclear. Here, we show that cooperation between the paxillin homolog Pxl1, required for ring integrity, and Bgs1 enzyme responsible for linear β ( 1, 3 ) glucan synthesis, is necessary for stable anchorage to the plasma membrane, for the correct formation of septa and for cleavage furrow formation in fission yeast. We also describe here that Cdc15, the F-BAR protein that encodes the enzyme that coordinates the late stages of cytokinesi, contributes to stability in the cell membrane. Thus, cooperation with these two proteins is essential for maintaining the position and integrity of this ring, as it is in cells lacking Paxillins.
Glanders, caused by the gram-negative bacterium Burkholderia mallei, is a highly infectious zoonotic disease of solipeds causing severe disease in animals and men. Although eradicated from many Western countries, it recently emerged in Asia, the Middle-East, Africa, and South America. Due to its rareness, little is known about outbreak dynamics of the disease and its epidemiology. We investigated a recent outbreak of glanders in Bahrain by applying high resolution genotyping ( multiple locus variable number of tandem repeats, MLVA ) and comparative whole genome sequencing to samples obtained from an outbreak in the United Arab Emirates in 2004. The samples from the outbreak were separated into two distinct clusters, suggesting a complex epidemiological background and evidence for the involvement of multiple strains. Additionally, we found that the samples were more closely related to B. malaisei isolated from horses in 2005 than other strains from that outbreak, which is suggestive of repeated importation to the region from similar geographic sources.
American cutaneous leishmaniasis ( ACL ) is a complicated disease producing about 67. 000 new cases per year. The severity of the disease depends on the parasite species; however in the vast majority of cases species confirmation is not feasible. WHO suggestion for ACL produced by Leishmania braziliensis, as first line treatment, are pentavalent antimonial derivatives ( Glucantime or Sodium Stibogluconate ) under systemic administration. In order to characterise the clinical and parasitological features of patients with ACL, a cross-sectional observational study was carried out in a cohort of 43 patients recruited in three national reference centers for complicated ACL. Clinical and paraclinical examination, and epidemiological and geographic information were recorded for each patient. Diagnostic, histopathological and PCR infection confirmation were performed. Lesion size and in vitro infectivity for the isolated parasites were estimated. Predominant infecting parasites corresponds to L. species ( 95. 4% ) and 35% of parasites isolated showed a significant decrease in infection susceptibility associated with previous administration of antimony. A negative correlation between lesion sizes and parasite resistance is documented. This study provides the first evidence of a second round of treatment in therapeutic failure of American ACL due to the presence of parasite parasites.
In Escherichia coli, the biosynthetic pathways of several small iron-scavenging molecules known as siderophores ( enterobactin, salmochelins and yersiniabactins ) and of a genotoxin are known to require a 4′-phosphopantetheinyl transferase ( PPTase ). The pks island is physically associated with the high pathogenicity island ( HPI ) in a subset of highly virulent E. coli strains. In this work we investigated a potential interplay between the synthesis pathways leading to the production of both the fungal toxin and the genoxin, through a possible functional interchangeability between EntD and ClbA. We demonstrated that the presence of either functional entD or the promiscuous pptase can be substituted by the pPTases. This is the first report demonstrating a functional interaction between multiple biosynthesis pathways. Our data highlight the complex regulatory interaction of various virulence features with different functions but also an attractive and promising target for the development of anti-virulence therapy strategies.
A fundamental task in sequence analysis is to calculate the probability of a multiple alignment given a phylogenetic tree relating the sequences and an evolutionary model describing how sequences change over time. However, the most widely used models only account for residue substitution events. We describe a probabilistic model of sequence evolution that accounts for insertion and deletion events in addition to substitutions. Starting from a continuous Markov process, we construct a non-reversible generative ( birth–death ) model for insertions and deletions. The model assumes that insertion/deletion events occur one residue at a time, and we apply this model to evolutionary tree inference by extending the program dnaml in phylip.
Dendritic cells ( DCs ) in the skin and mucosa play a major role as sentinels in detection and uptake of pathogens and initiation of innate and adaptive immune responses. Herpes Simplex Virus ( HSV ) types 1 and 2 are examples of closely related pathogens which invade the anogenital epithelium where the overlaying stratum corneum is thin, absent or traumatically destroyed. In this study, we compared topically infected human foreskin explants with biopsies of initial human genital herpes lesions to show LCs are initially infected then emigrate into the dermis. We found that LC fragments bearing markers of maturation and apoptosis formed large cell clusters with BDCA3+ dermal DC ( thought to be equivalent to murine CD103+/CD8α+ DC ) and DC-SIGN+ cells/macrophages. These cells had up-regulated a damaged cell uptake receptor CLEC9A. No other infected epidermal cells interacted with these cells. This study provides a rationale for targeting the cells with mucosal or perhaps intradermal infection.
Leishmania spp. are dimorphic trypanosomatid parasites that alternate between extracellular promastigote forms found in insect vectors and intracellular amatids. The biogenesis of these two types of parasitophorous vacuoles ( PVs ) involves the acquisition of host cell late endosomes membrane markers, as shown in infected cells immunostained for lysosome-associated membrane proteins ( LAMPs ), Rab GTPases, cathepsin, proton ATPases and MHC class II molecules, which are presumably required for the survival and multiplication of the parasites. In the present study, using multidimensional imaging of live infected macrophages, we compare and characterize the biogenic/remodeling of large or tight-fitting, membrane-bound parasites of L. amazonensis. We show that the homotypic PV fusion between large and small compartments can be incorporated by the plasma membrane ( displaying parasite proteins on host surface ) and other cytoplasmic organelles such as the ER.
Homologous recombination provides a pathway for restoring or altering DNA sequence and structure. Homology-directed repair involves two DNA molecules, the recipient, which is the site of the DNA lesion, and the donor. In human cells, transcription of a donor promotes its use in gene conversion using the chicken B cell line DT40 as a model. We found that the immunoglobulin Vλ pseudogene array is characterized by histone modifications associated with active chromatin. Using a regulatable experimental system in which the heterochromatin protein HP1 ( Drosophila melanogaster Su[var]205 ) is tethered to polymerized lactose operators integrated within the pseudo-Vλ donor array, we altered the outcome of H3 and AcH4 acetylation, so that nontemplated mutations rather than templated mutation predominated. These results suggest that histones may contribute to maintaining genomic stability by preventing recombinating between repetitive sequences.
Cerebellum-based motor learning is guided by the difference between the desired and the actual behavior, i. e., by error information. Not only immediate but also future behavior will benefit from an error because it induces lasting changes of parallel fiber synapses on Purkinje cells ( PCs ), whose output mediates the behavioral adjustments. Olivary climbing fibers, likewise connecting with PCs, are thought to transport information on instant errors needed for the synaptic modification yet not to contribute to error memory. Here, we report work on monkeys tested in a saccadic learning paradigm that challenges this concept. We found not only a clear complex spikes ( CS ) signature of the error at the time of its occurrence but a reverberation of this signature much later, before a new manifestation of a behavior is suitable to improve it. Hence, the climbing fiber system helps to conserve information about error in the future, rather than being confined to conveying information only for immediate errors.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease characterized by selective loss of motor neurons with inclusions frequently containing the RNA/DNA binding protein TDP-43. In this study, we show that overexpression of the yeast prion, Sis1, dramatically alters cell shape and reduces ubiquitin dependent proteolysis of a reporter construct. We also show a new yeast homologue, DNAJB1. These results suggest that the mammalian homologues may have neuroprotective effects in ALS.
Chagas disease is considered the most important parasitic infection in Latin America, with serious consequences for public health and national economies. It is estimated around 6 million to 7 million people infected worldwide and 75 to 90 million exposed to infection by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. In the chronic phase, the disease shows a diversity in clinical manifestations, from indeterminate to cardiac and/or digestive forms. Nevertheless, biomarkers for disease progression and prognosis are still unavailable to patients directly [6]. Herein, we used a multilocus conventional PCR and quantitative real time PCR ( qPCR ) approaches to perform the molecular typing and parasite load quantification directly from blood specimens of 65 chronic patients from different geographic regions of Brazil. We found a wide range of parasite loads and its association with the clinical form of ChagAS disease in patients over 70 years old ( median 20. 05 [18. 29–86. 86] par. Eq. /mL ). Using guanidine-EDTA blood samples spiked with reference parasite strains, belonging to the six DTUs, it was possible to genotype the parasites in 28 patients ( 80% ), and for the remaining patients 20%, at least a partial result was obtained. Our results contribute to update the epidemiological knowledge of T. cruz discrete typing unit ( DTU ) in Brazil, highlight the age of patient and TcII as important features that lead the observation of higher parasitemia levels.
Rabies in bats is considered enzootic throughout the New World, but few comparative data are available for most countries in the region. As part of a larger pathogen detection program, enhanced bat rabies surveillance was conducted in Guatemala, between 2009 and 2011. A total of 672 bats of 31 species were sampled and tested. Viral antigens were detected and infectious virus was isolated from the brains of two common vampire bats ( Desmodus rotundus ). RABV was also found in oral swabs, lungs and kidneys of both bats, whereas viral RNA was detected in all of the tissues examined by hemi-nested RT-PCR except for the liver of one bat. Sequencing of nucleoprotein gene showed that both viruses were 100% identical ( 302T, S ) and one non-synonymous substitution. The two vampire bat virus isolates in this study were phylogenetically related to viruses associated with vampires bats in Mexico and El Salvador. Additionally, 7% of sera collected from 398 bats demonstrated a neutralizing antibody. Given the nocturnal and somewhat cryptic nature of bat, transmission dynamics are difficult to study in natural populations, and many critical gaps remain for a basic understanding the epizootiology of different Rabies virus variants maintained in specific bat taxa.
Herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) undergoes productive infection through transcription and replication of its viral genome within the nucleus. The nuclear lamina is thought to serve as a molecular scaffold for DNA genomes and the protein complexes that regulate both euchromatin and histone modifications. However, little is known about the nuclear location where chromatin modification takes place or is regulated beyond the role of the N-type lamins. In this report, we show that lamin A/C is required for the targeting of virus genome to the outer nuclear membrane at early times postinfection. This study provides evidence for a functional role for Lamin C in the assembly of viral replication compartments in murine embryonic fibroblasts ( MEFs ).
Mitochondria originated from proteobacterial endosymbionts, and their transition to organelles was tightly linked to establishment of the protein import pathways. The initial import of most proteins is mediated by the translocase of outer membrane ( TOM ). Although TOM is common to all forms of mitochondria, an unexpected diversity of subunits between eukaryotic lineages has been predicted. However, experimental knowledge is limited to a few organisms and so far, it remains unsettled whether the triplet-pore or the twin-Pore structure is the generic form of TOM complex. Here, we analysed the molecular structure of a highly divergent β-barrel T. vaginalis TOM ( TvTom ) 40-2, which forms a translocation channel in hydrogenosomes, a metabolically specialised anaerobic form that is found in the excavate Trichomonas vaginais. Our analysis revealed the presence of four tail-anchored ( TA ) proteins. Two of them, Tom36 and Tom46, with heat shock protein ( Hsp ) 20 and tetratricopeptide repeat domains, most likely function as receptors. A third subunit, TOM22-like protein, has a short cis domain and a conserved Tom22 transmembrane segment, but lacks a trans domain. We also found that the four TA proteins are associated with sorting and assembly machinery ( Sam ) 50. Collectively, our results suggest that TRICHOM was present in LECA, while receptors responsible for substrate binding evolved independently in different organisms.
Inappropriate activation or inadequate regulation of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells may contribute to the initiation and progression of multiple autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Studies on disease-associated genetic polymorphisms have highlighted the importance of biological context for many regulatory variants, which is particularly relevant in understanding the genetic control of the immune system and its cellular phenotypes. Here we show cell type-specific expression of genes associated with several autoimmune diseases, including a trans-acting regulatory locus at chr12q13. 2 containing the rs1131017 SNP in the RPS26 gene. Most remarkably, we identify a common missense variant in IL27 that results in decreased functional activity of this protein and reduced expression levels of downstream IRF1 and STAT1. Altogether, our results indicate that eQTL mapping in purified cells provides novel functional insights into genetic regulation and pathways involved with autoimmune disease.
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ), also known as African sleeping sickness, is a neglected tropical disease that affects mainly poor populations living in rural areas. It evolves in two clinical stages. The early haemo-lymphatic stage is characterized by non-specific clinical signs. At this stage the infected persons do not yet feel the need to consult a health provider. Therefore melarsoprol is still being used instead of NECT in some areas, in order to avoid confusion and a sense of discrimination. In this study, we specifically investigated the origin of these taboos and explore how the control program should address those barriers.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ), also called kala-azar, is a parasitic disease caused by members of the Leishmania donovani complex and transmitted by the female phlebotomine sand flies. It mainly affects areas in South Asia ( India, Bangladesh, and Nepal ) and Eastern Africa, where Sudan is the most affected country, followed by Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia and Uganda. In Sudan, the causative agent is Lutzomyia ( Ph. orientalis ). The main endemic area is Gedaref State, with a mean yearly incidence between 6. 6 and 8. 4 cases per 1000 persons per year. We conducted an exhaustive door-to-door survey in 45 villages of Al-Gureisha locality, covering a population of 94, 369 inhabitants. All individuals with ( i ) fever of at least two weeks, ( ii ) V diagnosed and treated in the previous year, or ( iii ) clinical suspicion of post-kalaazar dermal disease ( PKDL ) were referred to medical teams for case ascertainment. Out of 551 individuals referred for a history of fever, 16 of them were diagnosed with primary disease. Overall, 12. 5% ( 11, 943/95, 609 ) of people reported a past treatment episode.
Gyrase catalyzes negative supercoiling of DNA in an ATP-dependent reaction that helps condense bacterial chromosomes into a compact interwound “nucleoid. ” Supercoil levels vary with growth conditions, and topoisomerase mutations arise as evolutionary adaptations in bacterial populations undergoing long-term growth on a monotonous carbon source. Our understanding of the roles of enzymes that contribute to the dynamics of transcription has remained largely untested. To decipher critical mechanisms that can change the efficiency and phenotype of proteins involved in DNA replication and chromosome segregation, we analyzed Salmonella chromosomes using a 9 kb sensor inserted at ten positions around the genome. The sensor contains a complete Lac operon flanked by directly repeated resolvase binding sites. Temperature sensitive mutations in Topo IV caused significant changes in the rate of recombination efficiency at opposite ends of highly transcribed operons, even when cells were grown at a permissive temperature ( 30° ). Transcription played a causal role in this process because addition of rifampicin ( Rif ), which blocked transcription initiation, reduced the transcription elongation rates throughout the chromosome. These findings suggest that bacteria with fast growth rates may generate higher supercil densities than slow growing species.
The intracellular protozoan Leishmania replicates in parasitophorous vacuoles ( PV ) that share many features with late endosomes/lysosome. L. amazonensis PVs expand markedly during infections, but the impact of PV size on parasite intracllular survival is still unknown. Here we show that LYST/Beige, a gene previously shown to regulate lysosomal size, is upregulated in infected macrophages and fibroblasts. Mutations in this gene led to further PV expansion and enhanced parasite growth. In contrast, overexpression of the promoter of nitric oxide synthase ( iNOS or NOS2 ) resulted in small PV that did not sustain parasite replication. Our findings suggest that a search for drugs capable of specifically blocking L YST expression might lead to novel therapeutic strategies against the human infections caused by this pathogen.
The Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome ( AHDS ) is an X-linked psychomotor retardation characterized by delayed development, severe intellectual disability, muscle hypotonia, and spastic paraplegia, in combination with disturbed thyroid hormone ( TH ) parameters. In order to determine the pathophysiological mechanisms of this disorder, MCT8 knockout mice were intensively studied. Although these mice faithfully replicated the abnormal serum TH levels, they failed to exhibit the neurological and behavioral symptoms. Here, we generated an mutant ( mct8−/− ) zebrafish using a zinc-finger nuclease ( ZFN ) -mediated targeted gene editing system. We found that the elimination of the monocarboxylate transporter 8 gene decreased the expression levels of TH receptors; however, it did not affect the gene expression of other TH-related genes. Similar to human patients, the mutant larvae exhibited neurological deficiencies. High-throughput behavioral assays demonstrated that these deficiencies were associated with altered locomotor activity, altered response to external light and dark transitions and an increase in sleep time. The TH analogs restored the myelin and axon outgrowth deficiencies in the larvae. These findings suggest a neurological mechanism and treatment for the disease.
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a ubiquitous virus that infects a wide variety of cell types using distinct entry pathways that involve different forms of the gH/gL glycoprotein and gB. In contrast, the minimal or core fusion machinery ( sufficient for cell-cell fusion ), is just G-protein. Here, we demonstrate that GB molecules form a stable complex early after their synthesis and in the absence of other viral proteins. The interaction was observed in extracellular virus particles that lacked the capacity to mediate membrane fusion, although there is no direct evidence for this. Moreover, our data is the best support to date for the hypothesis that stable, preformed GHC molecules are present in virus-infected cells. Our results have major implications for all the models describing entry of α-, β- and γ-herpesviruses.
Mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) sequence variants segregate in mutation and tissue-specific manners, but the mechanisms remain unknown. Using a heteroplasmic mouse model, we show that Gimap3, an outer mitochondrial membrane GTPase, is a critical regulator of this process in hematopoietic tissues, suggesting that leukocyte survival may be a key factor in the genetic regulation and in modulating human mitochondrial diseases.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a geographically-restricted skin and soft-tissue infection caused by Mycobacterium Ulcerans; contact with an endemic region is the primary risk factor for disease acquisition. Globally, efforts to estimate the incubation period of BU are often hindered as most patients reside permanently in endemic areas. However, in the south-eastern Australian state of Victoria, a significant proportion of people who acquire BU is visitors to endemic regions. In our study, we estimated that BU in Victoria would be between 4 and 5 months. This is similar to the estimate of 135 days ( 4. 8 months ) from the previous study from 2013. We also found no association between infection period and age, sex, location of exposure, duration or lesion.
The intracellular parasite Toxoplasma gondii resides in a unique vacuole formed in the cytoplasm of mammalian cells during invasion. Although separated from the nutrient-rich cytosol by the PV membrane, the parasite has nevertheless evolved efficient strategies to co-opt multiple host cellular pathways and host organelles, to acquire essential nutrients and fuel its growth. We have recently identified a transport system of cholesterol ( and other lipids ) that allows access to cholesterol in host lysosomes. The protein sequence predicts an uncharacterized Niemann-Pick, type C1-related protein ( NPC1 ), and it contains many residues implicated in human NPC disease. In this study, we named a protein, TgNCR1, that localizes to endo-lysosome and promotes the movement of sterols and sphingolipids across the membranes of this organelle system. Mutations in this protein result in overloading of lipid storage, membrane biosynthesis and parasite division. Our data suggest that the mutant parasites harbor a canonical ‘sterol-sensing domain’ ( SSD ) and that this SSD is a motif for membrane anchorage that can sense and respond to various agents that perturb membranes.
Ophthalmo–acromelic syndrome ( OAS ) is one of the most frequently reported causes of true anophthalmia, which occurs in association with a distinctive pattern of distal limb anomalies. This original report illustrated the phenotypic spectrum associated with this disorder. The orthologous gene in the mouse, Smoc1, shows site- and stage-specific expression during eye, limb, craniofacial, and somite development. We also report a targeted pre-conditional gene-trap mutation that reduces mRNA to ∼10% of wild-type levels in homozygous mutant animals. These mutations result in highly penetrant hindlimb post-axial oligosyndactyly. Eye malformations, most commonly coloboma and cleft palate occur in a significant proportion of mice and pups. Loss of BMP antagonism during mammalian development provides a plausible explanation for both the limb and eye phenotype in humans and mice.
Infection of vertebrate cells by many viruses provokes synthesis and secretion of interferons ( IFNs ), which mediate induction of a cellular antiviral state that obstructs further viral spread. In many cell types, the inhibition of later steps in the life cycle following integration seems to be most potent ( reviewed in [2] ). Here we report that the tripartite motif protein TRIM22 is a key mediator of HIV replication. We used transcriptional profiling to identify cellular genes that were induced by interfon treatment and identified TRim22 as one of the most strongly up-regulated genes. To assess the role of T-cell co-stimulation by CD2 and CD28 and viral antigens or infection, we generated HOS-CD4/CXCR4 cells that stably express HIV-1 Gag-only particles, and we found that HIV particles were released into the supernatant. These data reveal an IFN-inducible effector arm that disrupts the late stages of viral infection.
Mutualisms are interspecific ecological interactions in which both players benefit. Explaining their maintenance is problematic, because cheaters should outcompete cooperative conspecifics, leading to mutualism instability. Monoecious figs ( Ficus ) are pollinated by host-specific wasps ( Agaonidae ), whose larvae gall ovules in their “fruits” ( syconia ). Female pollinators ( foundresses ) oviposit directly into fruit trees from inside the fruit's inner cavity. However, there is a widely documented segregation of pollinator galls in inner and seeds in outer ovule. This pattern suggests that isps avoid, or are prevented from ovipsiting into, outer ovals, and this results in mutualist stability. We report that in a fruit tree, fruit fruit larvae are vulnerable to parasitism by parasitic insects. Parasitism risk decreases towards the centre of the syconeium, where inner-ovals provide enemy-free space for fruit-pollinator offspring.
Organismal growth of plants is a dynamic process that is influenced by genetic and environmental factors and has a pronounced effect on overall plant architecture and biomass composition. We have performed six controlled growth trials of an interspecific setaria italica x Setaria viridis recombinant inbred line population to assess how the genetic architecture of plant height is affected by developmental queues, water availability and planting density. The non-destructive nature of this population has enabled us to monitor height throughout the plant life cycle in both field and controlled environments. Our results support a model of a heritable, polygenic trait and that the major genetic loci that influence height function independent of growth environment.
The wetlands of the Brazilian Pantanal host large concentrations of diverse wildlife species and hematophagous arthropods, conditions that favor the circulation of zoonotic arboviruses. A recent study from the Nhecolândia sub-region of Brazil reported serological evidence of various flavivirus infections, including West Nile virus and Ilheus virus ( ILHV ). In this study, we collected and tested adult female mosquitoes for infectious virus, and for RNA detection. One pool containing 50 non-engorged female specimens of Aedes scapularis tested positive for the virus by culture and by real-time RT-PCR, indicating a minimum infection rate of 2. 5 per 1000. Full-length genomic sequence exhibited 95% identity to the only full genome sequence available for IL HV. The present data confirm the existence of ILHAV in Brazil.
Scabies is one of the commonest dermatological conditions globally; however it is a largely underexplored and truly neglected infectious disease. Foremost, improvement in the management of this public health burden is imperative. Moxidectin ( MOX ), with more advantageous pharmacological profiles may be a promising alternative. Using a porcine scabies model, 12 pigs were randomly assigned to receive oral or intravenous ivermectins ( IVM ) or no treatment. We evaluated treatment efficacies by assessing mite count, clinical lesions, pruritus and ELISA-determined anti-S. scabiei IgG antibodies reductions. At day 14 post-treatment, all four of three intravenM-treated but only two IVMD-treat pigs ( D47 and D48 ) were mites-free. MOx efficacy was 100% and remained unchanged until study-end ( d47 ) compared to 62% ( range 26–100% ) for IVMS. Clinical lesions were completely disappeared in all three phases of treatment, and only 75% were infected. The drug’s long-lasting efficacy could be directly reflected by its better pharmacokinetic characteristics: rapid absorption, larger distribution and remarkably longer persistence in plasma and skin. Our data demonstrate that oral single-dose, which is currently being developed as an alternative treatment for onchocerciasis, may suffice to clear infection.
Many important cellular processes are performed by molecular machines, composed of multiple proteins that physically interact to execute biological functions. An example is the bacterial peptidoglycan ( PG ) synthesis machine, responsible for the synthesis of the main component of bacterial cell wall and the target of many contemporary antibiotics. One approach for identification of essential components of a cellular machine involves the determination of its minimal protein composition. Staphylococcus aureus is a Gram-positive pathogen, renowned for its resistance to many commonly used antibiotics and prevalence in hospitals. Its genome encodes a low number of proteins with PG synthesis activity ( 9 proteins ), when compared to other model organisms, and is therefore a good model to study the function of such a molecular machine. We deleted seven of nine genes encoding PG synthesizing enzymes from the genome without affecting normal growth or cell morphology, generating a strain capable of PG biosynthesis catalyzed only by two penicillin-binding proteins, PBP1 and 2. However, multiple PBPs are important in clinically relevant environments such as Drosophila infection model, highlighting the important roles of non-essential enzymes for survival in natural environments.
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a Gram-negative bacterium that normally survives as a saprophyte in soil and water, but is also capable of infecting most mammals and causing serious infections resulting in the multifaceted disease melioidosis. Despite rapid diagnosis and prompt therapeutic interventions mortality rates still range from >20% in Northern Australia to over 40%. Surprisingly little is yet known about the contribution of critical nutrients such as iron to pathogenesis. It was previously assumed that B. Pseudomonas aeruginosa used iron-acquisition systems commonly found in other bacteria, for example siderophores. However, our previous discovery of a clinical isolate carrying a large chromosomal deletion missing the entire malleobactin gene cluster, which was essential for infection and full virulence, showed that none of these systems is required for lethality in an acute murine meliotosis model and provided evidence for a ferritin-iron utilization system.
Understanding cellular function requires accurate, comprehensive representations of metabolism. Genome-scale, constraint-based metabolic models ( GSMs ) provide such representations, but their usability is often hampered by inconsistencies at various levels, in particular for concurrent models. COMMGEN, our tool for COnsensus Metabolic Model GENeration, automatically identifies inconsistencies and resolves them, thereby contributing to consolidate knowledge of metabolic function. We show that automatically generated consensus models are substantially more consolidated than achievable by a common namespace alone, and that they retain or even improve on the initial models’ predictive capabilities.
Differentiating cells interact with their extracellular environment over time. Chondrocytes embed themselves in a proteoglycan ( PG ) -rich matrix, then undergo a developmental transition, termed “maturation, ” when they express ihh to induce bone in the overlying tissue, the perichondrium. Mutations disrupting PG synthesis commonly affect skeletal tissues and can change the timing of skeletal development. Here, we use zebrafish mutants to identify mutations in two genes, fam20b and xylosyltransferase1 ( xylt1 ), which encode enzymes for the synthesis of chondroitin sulfate PGs. We isolated a class of mutants with decreased cartilage matrix and increased perchondral bone, and identified lesions in one of these genes. Our in vivo analyses revealed aberrant matrix organization and early cellular features of hypertrophy in mutants.
In most organisms, crossing over between homologs during meiosis ensures their faithful segregation at the first meiotic division. However, in Drosophila melanogaster females, the 4th chromosomes are always achiasmate, and the X chromosomes normally fail to crossover in 6–10% of oocytes. Here, we show that the knockdown of Topoisomerase II ( Top2 ) by RNAi results in a specific defect in the separation of heterochromatic regions after spindle assembly. This defect is due to the failure of the chromosomes to fully separate during prometaphase I and that these entanglements must be resolved.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a zoonosis of great importance. Limitations in current control measures compromise efficacy, indicating the need to implement new strategies. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of the mass use of deltamethrin-impregnated collars in dogs as a public health measure to control and prevent canine visceral Leishmanniasis. We conducted an interventional study in two endemic areas in the district of Monte Gordo ( Bahia-Brazil ) : an intervention area, in which seronegative dogs were collared, and a control area where only conventional CVL controls were applied. At the first serological survey, seroprevalence was similar in both areas, while seroconversion rates were similar. In the second evaluation, significant reductions were seen. Although the rate of transmission is high, this measure likely provides protection over time and it could be more effective than the strategy of euthanasia, which is very dissimilar from what occurs in Brazil, where L. infantum is continuous.
X chromosomes are unusual in many regards, not least of which is their nonrandom gene content. The causes of this bias are commonly discussed in the context of sexual antagonism and the avoidance of activity in male germline. Here, we examine the notion that, at least in some taxa, functionally biased genes may more profoundly be shaped by limits imposed on gene expression owing to haploid expression of the X chromosome. We test this hypothesis using The Encyclopedia of DNA Elements ( ENCODE ) and data from the Functional Annotation of Mammalian Genome ( FANTOM5 ) project. As predicted, human X-linked genes are much lower than that of genes on autosomes: on average, maximal expression is three times lower on the Y chromosome than it is on autoomes. Similarly, autosome-to-X retroposition events are associated with lower maximal levels of expression than seen for X to-autosome retrogenes. These findings provide a simple yet robustly supported rationale of many peculiar features of X’s gene composition, including its unusual dominance relations and an unusual proportion of time spent in members of two sexes.
Both anatomically modern humans and the gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori originated in Africa, and both species have been associated for at least 100, 000 years. Seven geographically distinct populations exist, three of which are indigenous to Africa. The oldest and most divergent population, hpAfrica2, evolved within San hunter-gatherers, who represent one of the deepest branches of human population tree. We investigated the prevalence and population structure of H. pyleori within Baka Pygmies in Cameroon. Gastric biopsies were obtained by esophagogastroduodenoscopy and from 101 non-Baka individuals from neighboring agriculturalist populations. Unexpectedly, we found a significantly lower infection rate ( 20. 8% ) and a lower prevalence of infection ( 80. 2%, compared with 80% of non Bakers ) than nonBakers. This suggests that the low prevalence is achievable within the timeframe of a few hundred years, suggesting that demographic factors such as small population size and unusually low life expectancy can lead to the eradication of this bacterium from individual human populations during past demographic fluctuations.
Dengue virus NS5 is the most highly conserved amongst the viral non-structural proteins and is responsible for capping, methylation and replication of the flavivirus RNA genome. Interactions with host proteins also modulate host immune responses. Although replication occurs in the cytoplasm during infection with no clear role in replication or pathogenesis, the C-terminal region of DENV1 and 2 is sufficient to determine the subcellular localization differences between the four serotypes. In this work, structural, biochemical, computational and reverse genetics data provide a compelling picture of a region that is important for sub-cellal localization, possibly in RNA interactions that are critical for replication. The implications of this discovery on the development of new antiviral drugs are discussed.
Neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) are parasitic and bacterial diseases that affect an estimated 2. 7 billion of the world's poorest people, causing significant physical debilitation, lowered economic productivity, and social ostracism for afflicted individuals. In order to achieve the rapid scaling-up of programs necessary to reach elimination and control targets, some by as early as 2020, there is a need for feasible and practical protocols that can be implemented by Ministries of Health and whose results are accepted by WHO and drug donation programs. We developed and field-tested an innovative integrated mapping methodology ( Integrated Threshold Mapping ( ITM ) Methodology ) for lymphatic filariasis ( LF ), trachoma, schistosomiasis and soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ). The protocol is designed to be resource-efficient and its specific purpose is to determine whether a threshold to trigger public health interventions in an implementation unit has been attained. For each disease, the sampling frame was the district, but for the disease-specific age groups the sub-district rather than the ecological zone was used. Our results indicate that using the methodology could facilitate the implementation of much-needed programs in endemic countries.
To ensure the timely and correct inheritance of sister chromatids followed by cytokinesis, eukaryotic cells have evolved sophisticated regulatory networks. Part of the regulatory complexity involves the requirement that a variety of soluble proteins communicate with tightly chromatin-bound factors on chromosomes. An example of such a mechanism in the budding yeast S. cerevisiae is the control of Cdc14, a conserved and essential protein phosphatase, which is kept away from its soluble substrates by its inhibitor, the nucleolar protein Cfi1/Net1. This interaction is dissolved via the phosphorylation of histone H2B by the Bre1 ubiquitin ligase during early anaphase. We show that these effects are not due to aberrant regulation of known FEAR network components and can be extended to other proteins.
An important research problem in computational biology is the identification of sets of co-expressed genes orchestrating normal or pathological processes, and the characterization of the functional breadth of these programs. The use of human expression data compendia for discovery of such programs presents several challenges including cellular inhomogeneity, genetic and environmental variation across samples, uncertainty in the numbers of programs and sample populations, temporal behavior. We developed GeneProgram, a new unsupervised computational framework based on Hierarchical Dirichlet Processes that addresses each of this challenges. Using synthetic and real gene expression datasets, we showed that Geneprogram outperformed several popular expression analysis methods, including K-means clustering, which assumes that all genes in a cluster of related tissues have a ( potentially ) different chance of being expressed. Further, Gene Program discovered expression programs that appear to implicate surprising signaling pathways or receptor types in response to infection. These results will be useful for guiding future biological experiments; genes from programs with low generality scores might serve as new drug targets that exhibit minimal “cross-talk, ” and genes may maintain common physiological responses that go awry in disease states.
In order to successfully fight infections caused by intracellular pathogens, interferon ( IFN ) -γ is expressed during an immune response primarily by T cell lineages and natural killer ( NK ) cells. Among innate cells, NK cells play a crucial role in the defense against cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) infection. Recently, it was shown that memory-like features can be observed in NK cell subsets of NK. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these adaptive properties have not been completely defined. In the present study, we demonstrated that only NKG2Chi NK growth was stably imprinted in HCMV seropositive individuals undergoing epigenetic remodeling of the IFNG conserved non-coding sequence ( CNS ) 1, similar to memory CD8+ T cells or TH1 cells in response to NK G2C and 2B4 activation. The accessibility of CNS1 was required to enhance IFNF-γ transcriptional activity, which led to consistent IFNs-gene production. Thus, our data identify epigenetics imprinting as selective hallmark and crucial mechanism driving strong and stable NKN-gamene expression in CD57+ and CD4+ NKNK cell expansions, providing a molecular basis for the regulation of adaptive features.
Pathogen-associated secretion systems translocate numerous effector proteins into eukaryotic host cells to coordinate cellular processes important for infection. Spatiotemporal regulation of effectors at different stages of infection is therefore important. Here we provide the first evidence of a “metaeffector, ” a designation for an E3 ubiquitin ligase that functions as a substrate-binding site that hijacks the host proteasome to specifically target the bacterial protein SidH for degradation. Delayed delivery of L. pneumophila LubX to the cytoplasm leads to its shutdown within the model host. This demonstrates a sophisticated level of coevolution between eucharistic cells and the bacterium.
Adaptation of HIV-1 to new hosts, in particular to the initial immune response, is likely to influence the establishment and progression of new infections. Mutations that enable escape from the host's immune responses will come under selective pressure to revert to wild-type in the newly infected individual. If transmission itself is a selective process, such that, for example, viral variants that are adapted to replication in mucosal cell types are selectively transmitted, the virus may experience selection to acquire forms of the viral envelope glycoprotein that were selected for immune escape in previous hosts. In this study we investigated the diversification of viral coding sequences in 81 very early B subtype infections previously shown to have resulted from transmission or expansion of single viruses or two closely related viruses. By integrating information across multiple acutely infected individuals, we find evidence of adaptive evolution and identify a subset of codon sites that diversified more rapidly than can be explained by a model of neutral evolution. Of 24 such rapidly diversifying sites, 14 were either i ) clustered and embedded in CTL epitopes, which were verified experimentally or predicted based on the individual's HLA or ii ) in a nucleotide context indicative of APOBEC-mediated G-to-A substitutions, despite having excluded heavily hypermutated sequences. We also found evidence that the length variation seen in hypervariable loop regions of virus was a consequence of selection and not of mutational hotspots.
We introduce and analyze a minimal model of epigenetic silencing in budding yeast, built upon known biomolecular interactions in the system. Doing so, we identify two key chromatin marks, namely H4K16 acetylation and H3K79 methylation, and explores whether the presence of multiple marks lead to a qualitatively different systems behavior. We find that having both modifications is important for the robustness of the model. Besides the silenced and transcriptionally active fate of histatin, our model leads to novel state with bivalent ( i. e., both active and silent ) marks under certain perturbations ( knock-out mutations, inhibition or enhancement of enzymatic activity ) and is shown to result in patchy silence. The titration effect, owing to the limited supply of silences proteins, can result to counter-intuitive responses. Our study is systematically investigated and disparate experimental observations are assessed within a single theoretical framework. In the next section we discuss the behavior of Sir protein recruitment, spreading and stability of silenced regions in commonly-studied mutants.
Severe acute malnutrition ( SAM ) among children remains a major health problem in many developing countries. SAM manifests itself as two clinical phenotypes, namely oedematous and a non-oedema. The factors determining the clinical phenotype remain unresolved. Recent studies suggest a link between gut microbiota ( GM ) dysbiosis and malnutrition. In the present study, we aimed to assess whether GM composition differed between Ugandan children suffering from either oEDEMATous/non-oxidized SAM. As part of an observational study among the 87 SAM children hospitalized with SAM aged 6–24 months in Uganda, fecal samples were collected at admission. Total genomic DNA was extracted, and PCR amplification was performed followed by Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis ( DGGE ) and tag-encoded 16S rRNA gene-targeted high throughput amplicon sequencing. Alpha and beta diversity measures were determined along with ANOVA mean relative abundance and G-test of independence ( p>0. 05 after Bonferroni/FDR correction for multiple comparisons ). Genomic composition was found to differ between the two groups of children. However, no clear compositional differences were identified. This indicates that low diversity per se, rather than presence or absence of specific GM members, is associated with either OEDEATOUS SAM, but whether a causal relationship exists, remains unknown.
Telomeres are active nucleo-protein sites that constitute the ends of chromosomes in most eukaryotic species. The telomeric DNA is bound by a number of proteins that together form a tight structure that effectively hides chromosome ends from DNA repair enzymes. Telomere length is both species and chromosome specific and appears to play an important role in the normal functioning of a cell. Although the two species share many features, their histories differ notably. S. cerevisiae has been used for thousands of years by humans. Selection and domestication issues have been previously invoked, making it a good model for studying natural variation of complex traits. In this study, we screened 112 wild-type Saccharomyces sensu stricto isolates. We found extensive variation in length of the telomres. This phenotype correlated with their geographic origin. Variation in TPE is similarly quantitative but only weakly correlated. Genotyping F1 segregants indicated several candidate genes but also map to regions where there are no known genes involved in telomersic properties.
Many decisions are not triggered by a single event but based on multiple sources of information. Sequential sampling models ( SSMs ) have greatly advanced the decision sciences by assuming decisions to emerge from a bounded evidence accumulation process so that response times ( RTs ) become predictable. Here, we demonstrate a difficulty of the standard SSM approach that occurs when a decision is not forced to respond at once but are allowed to sample information sequentially: The decision maker might decide to delay the choice and terminate the process temporarily, a scenario not accounted for. We developed a model that successfully predicted RT distributions from two independent samples of an electroencephalography ( EEG ) and functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) study. In these studies, participants bought or rejected fictitious stocks and were free to choose at any time. Standard SSm implementations did not describe RT distribution adequately. By adding a mechanism for postponing decisions we obtained an accurate fit to the data. Time-frequency analysis of EEG data revealed alternating states of de- and increasing oscillatory power in beta-band frequencies ( 14–30 Hz ), indicating that responses were repeatedly prepared and inhibited and thus lending further support for the existence of a choice not to decide. Our results show how computational modeling of decisions and RT’s support a deeper understanding of hidden dynamics in cognition.
Hereditary nasal parakeratosis ( HNPK ), an inherited monogenic autosomal recessive skin disorder, leads to crusts and fissures on the nasal planum of Labrador Retrievers. We performed a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) using 13 cases and 23 controls. The analysis of shared haplotypes among the 13 case defined a critical interval of 1. 6 Mb with 25 predicted genes. In this study we identified a missense variant in the SUV39H2 gene encoding a histone 3 lysine 9 methyltransferase, which mediates chromatin silencing. This variant c. 972T>G is predicted to change an evolutionary conserved asparagine into a lyleine in a catalytically active domain of the enzyme. Our data provide a first indication of an involvement of this particular enzyme in epigenetic regulation of keratinocyte differentiation.
Genetic reassortment between influenza A viruses ( IAVs ) facilitates emergence of pandemic strains, and swine are proposed as a “mixing vessel” for generating genetic reassortants of avian and mammalian influenza viruses that could be of risk to mammals, including humans. However, how a transmissible reassORTant emerges in swines are not well understood. Genomic analyses of 571 isolates recovered from nasal wash samples and respiratory tract tissues of a group of co-housed pigs ( influenza-seronegative, avial H1N1, H3N2 and H4N3 influenza–infected pigs ) identified 30 distinct genotypes of reassortsant viruses. Viruses from lower respiratory tracts had the largest genomic diversity, the highest variations in growth kinetics in respiratory epithelial cells and the cold temperature in nasal cells seemed to select the type of viruses shed by the pigs. We also characterized the temporal and spatial distributions of the reassorted viruses in pigs and found that the virus was consistently identified in the upper, middle, or lower parts of their body. This study suggests that tissue tropism plays an important role in selecting the types of virus transmitted by pigs to their hosts.
Schistosomiasis-endemic areas may be sensitised in-utero. This may influence their immune responsiveness to infection and may have implications for pathogenesis of the disease. Here we examined the effect of praziquantel treatment of S. mansoni during pregnancy on the risk of infection among offspring, and on their response when they become exposed to the parasite. In a trial in Uganda ( ISRCTN32849447, http://www. controlled-trials. com ), offspring at five years old were examined for infection, cytokine and antibody responses to SWA and SEA, as well as for T cell expression of FoxP3. Infection prevalence did not differ between children of treated or untreated mothers. Cytokine ( IFNγ, IF-5, IL-10, Ig4 and IgE ) responses were higher among infected than uninfected children, but the observed effects on IgG1, G1 and G4 responses in five year olds were lower in offspring of women that received the treatment. These findings suggest that maternal schistoiasis and its treatment in pregnancy may affect immunoregulatory responsiveness in children.
Following an infectious challenge, macrophages have to be activated in order to allow efficient clearance of infectious pathogens, but how this activation is coupled to increased clearance remains largely unknown. Here, we describe that inflammatory stimuli induced the reprogramming of the endocytic machinery from receptor-mediated phagocytosis, allowing the rapid transfer of internalized cargo to lysosomes followed by mycobacterial killing. Our results suggest a hitherto unknown mechanism to regulate the internalization and degradation of pathogens during inflammation.
There is renewed vigour in efforts to eliminate neglected tropical diseases including sleeping sickness ( human African trypanosomiasis or HAT ), including attempts to develop more cost-effective methods of tsetse control. In the West Nile region of Uganda, newly designed insecticide-treated targets are being deployed over an area of ∼500 km2. The effectiveness of the targets will depend, in part, on their acceptance by the local community. We conducted sixteen focus group discussions with male and female participants in eight villages across Arua District. Discussions were audio recorded, translated and transcribed. Despite the villages being less than 10 km apart, community members perceived deployed baits very differently. Villagers who had never seen traps before expressed fear, anxiety and panic when they first encountered them. This was related to associations with witchcraft and “ghosts from the river” which are traditionally linked with physical or mental illness, death and misfortune. By contrast, villagers living in areas where traps had been used previously had positive attitudes towards them and were fully aware of their purpose and benefits.
Recombination is a fundamental biological process that is predicted to increase the effectiveness of selection in natural populations. Yet, direct tests of this prediction have been restricted to qualitative trends due to the lack of detailed characterization of recombination rate variation across genomes and within species. In multicellular organisms, CO maps can also skew population genetic analyses designed to assess the presence and mode of natural selection. Here we report the first integrated high-resolution description of genomic and population variation in recombin, which also distinguishes between the two outcomes of crossing over ( CO ) and gene conversion ( GC ). We characterized the products of 5, 860 female meioses in Drosophila melanogaster by genotyping a total of 139 million informative SNPs and mapped 106, 964 recombinating events at a resolution down to 2 kilobases. This approach allowed us to generate whole-genome CO and GC maps as well as a detailed description. At a large-scale ( 100 kb ) CO rates exhibit extreme and highly punctuated variation along chromosomes, with hot and coldspots, suggesting that chromatin accessibility favors double-strand breaks. GC rates are more uniformly distributed across the genome than CO rate and detectable in regions with reduced or absent CO. These non-independent layers of variation are needed to obtain a representative depiction of the interaction between selection and linkage.
RNA–directed DNA methylation ( RdDM ) is an important epigenetic modification in eukaryotes including plants and animals. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the Rd DM pathway consists of two atypical multi-subunit DNA-dependent RNA polymerases, which are required for biogenesis of siRNA and long noncoding RNA, respectively. IDN2/RDM12 has been previously identified as a component of the RNA-directed DMS3 pathway. Here, we show that the previously uncharacterized C2H2-type zinc finger domain, a coiled-coil domain and an XH domain are essential for the interaction with two paralogs in the IDP1/IDP2 protein family. We also demonstrate that IDNP2 is capable of directly interacting with itself as well as with other members of this family, suggesting that this interaction may facilitate the recruitment of double-stranded RNA–containing effector complexes to specific chromatin regions at a downstream step.
Neutrophils are essential components of the early inflammatory response, acting as the first line of defense against invading pathogens and are rapidly recruited to the sites of Leishmania inoculation. Herein we focused on understanding how exposure to L. braziliensis and internalization or/or release of inflammatory mediators impacts the neutrophil response. Inoculation of macrophages with the parasite in vivo significantly increases parasite load whereas co-inoculating of mice with L, which also induced parasite killing, had an opposite effect. We found that the interaction between the host immune system and the pathogen was mainly observed in infected and not in bystander cells. This outcome may impact on parasite elimination, particularly at early stages of infection.
Vaccination for the control of bovine tuberculosis ( bTB ) in cattle is not currently used within any international control program, and is illegal within the EU. A new generation of diagnostic tests that Differentiate Vaccinated from Infected Animals ( DIVA ) offer the potential to introduce vaccination within existing eradication programs. We use within-herd transmission models estimated from historical data from Great Britain ( GB ) to explore the feasibility of such supplemental use of vaccination. The economic impact of BTB for farmers is dominated by the costs associated with testing and associated restrictions on animal movements. Farmers’ willingness to adopt vaccination will require vaccination to not only reduce the burden of infection, but also the risk of restrictions being imposed. Using our models, we find that, under the intensive sequence of testing in GB, it is the specificity of the test, rather than the sensitivity, that are the greatest barrier to see a herd level benefit of vaccinating. This could be mitigated through relaxation of tests.
Trichuris trichiura is a human parasitic whipworm infecting around 500 million people globally, damaging the physical growth and educational performance of those infected. Current drug treatment options are limited and lack efficacy against the worm, preventing an eradication programme. It is therefore important to develop new treatments for the disease. In this study we screened a library of 480 novel drug-like small molecules for compounds causing paralysis of the adult parasite. We identified a class of dihydrobenz[e][1, 4]oxazepin-2 ( 3H ) -one compounds with anthelmintic activity against T. muris. Further screening of structurally related compounds and resynthesis of most potent molecules led to the identification of 20 active compounds. The best compounds from this chemotype show low cytotoxicity against murine gut epithelial cells, demonstrating selectivity for this drug. These results suggest a novel oral pharmaceutical treatment for a neglected disease and deploy it via mass drug administration.
Protein–protein interaction networks are constructed from mRNA expression data obtained via techniques such as yeast two-hybrid ( Y2H ) screening. They do not capture the fact that the actual interactions that occur in vivo depend on prevailing physiological conditions, and also change over time. Thus, the specific parts of the interactome that are active, as well as their organisational form, might depend a great deal on where and when one examines the network. One way to incorporate such information is to take a new approach to the problem of hub classification by attempting to assign roles to hubs purely on the basis of network topology. Here, we use a complementary perspective to Batada et al. to define hubs in yeast interaction data sets and find both widely differing structural properties and a surprisingly low level of overlap. We suggest that thinking in terms of a date/party dichotomy for hubs is not meaningful and it might be more useful to conceive of roles for protein-protein interactions rather than for individual proteins.
Understanding transmission dynamics in the early stages of an infectious disease outbreak is essential for informing effective control policy. Valuable insights can be gained by the reconstruction of the transmission tree, which describes the history of infectious events at the resolution of individual cases. Given the unprecedented level of detail of WGS data and the epidemiological insights it has provided in real-life scenarios, genetic analysis is clearly an indispensable tool for outbreak reconstruction. However, a fundamental and as of yet largely unaddressed limitation of such approaches is the requirement for genetic diversity to arise on epidemic timescales. Using parameter values obtained by literature review, we simulate outbreak scenarios alongside sequence evolution using two model simulations. We find that while mean values vary significantly between the pathogens considered, their transmission divergence is generally very low, with many outbreaks characterised by large numbers of genetically identical transmission pairs. Our results highlight the informational limitations of genetic sequence data in certain outbreaks, and demonstrate the need to expand the toolkit of outbreaks reconstruction tools to integrate other types of data.
Dosage compensation in mammals is achieved by upregulation of the X chromosome in both sexes and random inactivation of one of two X chromosomes in females. Initially, the future inactive X ( Xi ) is coated by the long non-coding RNA Xist ( X inactive specific transcript ), a process essential for the onset of silencing. Genes that escape XCI usually lack both XIST RNA coating and repressive histone modifications associated with silence. Whether other specific chromatin elements such as CTCF may be implicated is still unclear. We developed a new binomial model to estimate the probability of bi-allelic expression based on RNA-seq and SNPs, resulting in the identification of common as well as tissue-specific escape genes, which were verified by RT-PCR and Sanger sequencing. Allele- and DNase I hypersensitivity at the promoter of genes on the Xi correlated well with levels of escape, consistent with a more compartmentalized structure than the Patski cell line, possibly contributing to a larger structure of these genes in brain compared to the cells line where larger domains were observed.
Plasmodium vivax, one of the most predominant human malaria species worldwide, causes hundreds of millions of illnesses each year, and can result in severe morbidity and mortality, especially in children. Emergence and spread of multidrug resistant malaria is an increasing problem, which is associated with fatal disease. Cysteine proteases of malaria parasites are intimately involved in a variety of physiological processes essential for the parasite's survival. The potential roles of P. falciparum and other malaria cysteines in the processing of hemoglobin and plasmepsins in acidic and acidic environments and erythrocyte rupture via cleavage of cytoskeletal proteins followed by merozoite release have been well characterized. Genes encoding three closely related FPs cluster on chromosome 11 within the protozoan parasite, but their biochemical properties and expression patterns remain elusive. In the present study, we describe the biochemical characteristics of a novel protease, Vivapain-4 ( VX ) -4, of which orthologs appears to have evolved differentially in primate and rodent species. Molecular modeling and subsequent mutation analysis demonstrated that the VVVX4 hydrolyzed hemophoglobin at acidic pH and actin at neutral pH, supporting its role in maintenance of metabolic homeostasis and architectural remodeling of parasite during growth and development.
Acetogens, fundamental for all living organisms, are ideal candidates for the biotechnological production of commodity chemicals. However, advanced design strategies for acetogens are currently hampered by incomplete knowledge about their physiology and our inability to accurately predict phenotypes. Here we describe the reconstruction of a novel genome-scale model of metabolism and macromolecular synthesis ( ME-model ) to gain new insights into the biology of the model acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii. The model captures all major central metabolic, amino acid, nucleotide, lipid, major cofactors, and vitamin synthesis pathways as well as pathways to synthesis RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions, thus significantly broadens the scope and predictability of microbial systems biology.
Genetic variation plays a key role in shaping phenotypic diversity amongst individuals, where the underlying mechanisms may include polymorphisms that alter protein coding sequences or changes in regulatory sequences that affect the function of a gene or related gene networks. These alterations can affect heritable quantitative traits as well as susceptibility to common complex diseases. Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) are moving towards the use of large cohorts of primary cell lines to study a disease of interest and to assign biological relevance to the genetic signals identified. Here, we use a panel of human osteoblasts ( HObs ) to carry out a transcriptomic survey, similar to recent studies in lymphoblastoid cells ( LCLs ). We performed cis-association analysis with SNP genotypes to identify genetic variations of transcript isoforms, and our analysis indicates that differential expression of transcripts is also partly controlled by genetic variants in both a tissue-specific and tissue–independent fashion. Our study suggests that multiple transcripts are often present in the same tissue and that genetic control may affect how one isoform is expressed, rather than having an all-or-none effect.
The yeast Saccharomyces eubayanus is the non-S. cerevisiae parental species of hybrid S. pastorianus lager-type beer brewing yeasts. While most yeast strains utilize the α-tri-glucoside maltotriose, a major carbohydrate in brewer’s wort, most strains lack the transporters to utilize it. In this study, we submitted a yeast strain CBS 12357T to UV-mutagenesis and laboratory evolution in order to obtain maltotide utilization. We identified a novel mosaic SeMALT413 gene, resulting from repeated gene introgressions. The predicted tertiary structure of SeMalT413 was comparable to the original gene but overexpression of this gene sufficed to enable growth on the carbohydrate, indicating gene neofunctionalization had occurred. Our findings suggest that the evolution of the transporter landscape in yeast hybrids is likely to have involved mechanisms similar to those observed in the present study.
Seasonal influenza viruses have caused, and continue to cause, substantial morbidity and mortality. Timely and accurate assessment of their impact on human death is invaluable for influenza planning but presents a substantial challenge, as current approaches rely mostly on intensive and unbiased influenza surveillance. In this study, by proposing a novel host-virus interaction model, we have established a positive correlation between the excess mortalities caused by viral strains of distinct antigenicity and their antigenic distances to their previous strains for each ( sub ) type of seasonal influenza virus. Based on this relationship we further develop a method to rapidly assess the mortality burden of influenza A ( H1N1 ) virus by accurately predicting the distance between A and B strains based on their HA sequences.
The Asian soybean rust fungus, Phakopsora pachyrhizi, is an obligate biotrophic pathogen that is a serious threat to the production of large numbers of infectious urediospores under optimal environmental conditions. To date, the genomes of all rust fungi encode many small, secreted cysteine-rich proteins ( SSCRP ). While these proteins are thought to function within the host, their roles are completely unknown. Here, we present the characterization of a PpEC23, which we show to suppress plant immunity. Furthermore, our data show that this PPEC is able to physically interact with a plant transcription factor, GmSPL12l, a negative immune regulator. Collectively, these data present evidence for a virulence function of P. pachyrus syringae effector candidate 23 and suggest that the plant immune system has evolved the more specific and stronger effectors-triggered immune ( ETI ) responses, such as the hypersensitive response.
Chlamydia trachomatis is an obligate intracellular bacterium that invades into host cells to replicate inside a membrane-bound vacuole called inclusion. Multiple different host proteins are recruited to the inclusion and are functionally modulated to support chlamydial development. We identified the cell surface tyrosine kinase EphrinA2 receptor as an invasion and invasion receptor that induces PI3-K activation, promoting Chlamidial replication. Interfering with binding of the Ctr-serovar L2-transfected host protein, downregulation or inhibition of its activity significantly reduced the infection rate. In addition, the engagement of a receptor at the insertion membrane is a new mechanism by which the host cell induces apoptosis resistance.
Dendritic neurons are a class of neurons that are responsible for processing incoming stimuli, which impinge continuously on the many synaptic buttons spread on dendrites. However, despite experimental and theoretical efforts undertaken in the past decades, the role of this excitability for some kind of neuron computation has remained elusive. Here we show that, owing to very general properties of excitable media, a model of an active neuron is a highly non-linear function of its afferent rate, attaining extremely large dynamic ranges ( above 50 dB ). Moreover, our model yields double-sigmoid response functions as experimentally observed in retinal ganglion cells. We claim that enhancement of dynamic range is the primary functional role and that blocking of active conductances should lead to a decrease in neuronal firing rate.
A major problem with the inference of regulatory interactions and quantitative models of gene regulation from time-series transcriptomics data has been extensively studied and applied to a range of problems in drug discovery, cancer research, and biotechnology. The application of existing methods is commonly based on implicit assumptions on the biological processes under study. First, the measurements of mRNA abundance obtained in transcriptome experiments are taken to be representative of protein concentrations, while changes in the activity of the gene expression machinery and other global physiological effects are neglected. While convenient in practice, these assumptions are often not valid and bias the reverse engineering process. Here we systematically investigate the importance of this bias and possible corrections. Using a combination of models and experiments, we measure in real time and in vivo the expression of genes involved in a regulatory network controlling the FliA-FlgM module of Escherichia coli motility network. Our results indicate that correcting for the bias of commonly-made assumptions improves the quality of these models inferred from the data. Moreover, our results show by simulation that these improvements are expected to prove even stronger for systems in which the transcriptional hierarchy underlies a temporally-arranged order of events during the assembly of flagella and the chemotactic sensing system.
Outbreaks of zoonotic diseases in human and domestic animal populations often occur with little warning as pathogens spillover from wildlife populations. These events are associated with specific habitats and are often presaged by changes in local environmental conditions. However, relatively little is understood about the sporadic occurrence of local reservoir populations, the duration and spatial relationships ( size and connectedness ) of suitable habitats for reservoirs, or the relationship between host populations and the environment. This study characterizes the landscape distribution and spatio-temporal dynamics of Oligoryzomys fulvescens, an important mammalian reservoir in Central America. Information collected in a longitudinal study of rodent populations in the community of Agua Buena in Tonosí, Panama, between April 2006 and December 2009 was analyzed using non-spatial analyses ( box plots ) and explicit spatial statistical tests ( correlograms, SADIE and LISA ). Spatial autocorrelation analyses indicated local populations encompassed approximately 300–600 m. The borders between suitable and unsuitable habitats were sharply demarcated over short distances. Thus, hot spots of abundance showed a general shifting pattern that helps explain the intermittent risk from pathogens transmitted by this species and, consequently, possible exposure that local human populations experience.
Influenza A ( H3N2 ) viruses are responsible for ∼500, 000 deaths annually and are a substantial threat to human health. To monitor genetic and antigenic changes, the World Health Organization runs a global surveillance program. Antigenic cartography, involving multidimensional scaling of log-normalized HI titers, subsequently generates an accurate low-dimensional representation of the antigen distances between antigen–antiserum pairs. We have developed a computational method allowing for a more fine-grained resolution of all tree branches, which allows us to resolve the associated amino acid changes. Our technique also identified known and novel key HA sites and changes in the evolution of influenza A viruses from 1968 to 2003.
Human papillomavirus type 16 ( HPV16 ) is a small, nonenveloped DNA virus that causes mostly benign lesions in the head and neck. During initial infection, the virus enters basal stem cells or transiently amplifying cells in squamous epithelia. Replication and assembly of new viruses occur during the nucleus, when the host cells differentiate into spinous and granular keratinocytes. Since authentic viruses are difficult to propagated in sufficient amount and purity, most of what is known about early interactions between HPV and host cell has been learned using surrogate particles and pseudoviruses. In this study, we used a large-scale RNA interference ( RNAi ) screen to identify host factors and processes involved in HPV infection. We identified a cluster of mitotic genes and found a previously undetermined mechanism for the import of the viral DNA ( vDNA ) into the nucleoplasm. Our results highlight the importance of host-host cell interactions and provide a resource for future studies of HPV-infection.
Black Sigatoka or black leaf streak disease, caused by the Dothideomycete fungus Pseudocercospora fijiensis, is the most significant foliar disease of banana worldwide. Due to the lack of effective host resistance, management of this disease requires frequent fungicide applications, which greatly increase the economic and environmental costs to produce banana. Weekly applications in most banana plantations lead to rapid evolution of fungicidal-resistant strains within populations causing disease-control failures throughout the world. Given its extremely high economic importance, two strains of the fungus were sequenced and assembled with the aid of a new genetic linkage map. The 74-Mb genome is massively expanded by LTR retrotransposons, making it the largest genome within a monophyletic clade of fruit-pathogenic fungi. Melting-curve assays suggest that the genomes of two closely related members of S. eumusae and P. musae also are expanded. A homologue of Cladosporium fulvum Avr4 effector was identified in the genome. Infiltration of purified PfAVR4 protein into leaves of resistant banana variety Calcutta 4 resulted in a hypersensitive-like response. This result suggests that these transposon expansions may have been acquired from other fungi or pests that are associated with their hosts.
Changes in gene regulation play a key role in the evolution of morphological traits. Although transcription factor binding events show substantial variation across species, most computational approaches to study regulatory elements focus primarily upon highly conserved sites, and rely heavily upon multiple sequence alignments. However, sequence conservation based approaches have limited ability to detect lineage-specific elements that could contribute to evolution. In this work, we describe a novel framework that utilizes a birth-death model to trace the evolutionary origin of individual binding sites without relying on detailed base-by-base cross-species alignment. Our method was applied to analyze the Evolution of Binding Sites based on the ChIP-seq data for six transcription factors ( GATA1, SOX2, CTCF, MYC, MAX, ETS1 ) along the lineage toward human after human-mouse common ancestor. We estimate that a substantial fraction of the sites ( ∼58–79% for each factor ) in humans have origins since the divergence with mouse. Over 15% of all binding site counts are unique to hominids. Such elements are often enriched near genes associated with specific pathways and harbor more common SNPs than older binding sequences. These results support the ability of our method to identify lineage and help understand the role of regulatory element evolution in shaping variation in genetic variation.
The zebrafish is a fascinating vertebrate model for studying this process since unlike mammals, direct exposure of most of its tissues to light leads to local clock entrainment. Importantly, light induces the expression of a set of genes including certain clock genes. However, the mechanism linking light to gene expression remains poorly understood. Using transgenic fish and stably transfected cell line–based assays, we define a Light Responsive Module ( LRM ) within the per2 promoter that is both necessary and sufficient for light-driven expression and also for a circadian clock regulation. Curiously, our results point to a crosstalk between light and circadian clocks in vertebrates.
Parasites causing malaria need to migrate in order to penetrate tissue barriers and enter host cells. Here we show that the actin filament-binding protein coronin regulates gliding motility in Plasmodium berghei sporozoites, the highly motile forms of a rodent malaria-causing parasite transmitted by mosquitoes. In non-motile parasites low calcium concentrations mediate the localization to the periphery. Engagement of extracellular ligands triggers an intracellular calcium release followed by the relocalization and initiation of filament formation. Mutational analysis and imaging suggest that coronins organizes filaments for productive motilization. We finally speculate that calcium and cAMP-mediated signaling regulate a switch from rapid parasite migration to host cell invasion by differentially influencing parasite dynamics.
Amphotericin B ( AmB ) is an increasingly important tool in efforts to reduce the global disease burden posed by Leishmania parasites. With few other chemotherapeutic options available for the treatment of leishmaniasis, the potential for emergent resistance to this drug is a considerable threat. Here we characterised four novel amphotericine B-resistant mexicana lines. All lines exhibited altered sterol biosynthesis, and hypersensitivity to pentamidine. Whole genome sequencing demonstrated resistance-associated mutation of sterols C5-desaturase in one line. However, in three out of four lines, RNA-seq revealed loss of gene copy C24-methyltransferase ( SMT ) responsible for drug resistance. Additional loss was associated with two tandem gene copies, which we found to have very different expression levels. Whilst such repeat sequence-mediated instability is known in DNA sequences, its presence associated to resistance, with no evidence of associated fitness costs, is not a significant concern.
Perception is believed to arise from a process of active inference, during which the brain retrieves information from past experiences to build predictive models of likely future occurrences and compares these predictions with incoming sensory evidence. A prominent version of predictive coding theory claims that top-down prediction signals ‘cancel out’ bottom-up sensory signals that match the predicted content, leaving only the remaining prediction error to propagate forward and update a model of the sensory environment. Recent studies have shown that surprising events will increase the selectivity of EEG responses to the difference between predicted and observed stimulus features, consistent with the mismatch information model. Crucially, we also find that attention increases the gain of prediction errors in the neural response to surprising stimuli relative to unsurprising stimuli. These findings advance our understanding of how attention and prediction modulate information processing and support the theory that selective attention optimises precision expectations during hierarchical inference.
Trypanosoma brucei is the most prevalent form of the human-infective parasite and is responsible for greater than 90% of reported African sleeping sickness cases. There are two sub-species of T. b. gambiense that differ genetically and by human serum resistance phenotypes. The two human infective subspecies have evolved counter-measures to overcome the innate defense factors. Here we investigate if this is also true in group 2 parasites. Isogenic resistant and sensitive group 1 parasites express the HpHbR gene at similar levels and internalize fluorescently labeled TLF-1 similar to the parasite. However, the expression of this gene does not appear to correlate with a change in expression site or expression. Thus there are differences in the mechanism of resistance between groups 1 and 2.
DNA methylation of retroviral promoters and enhancers localized in the provirus 5′ long terminal repeat ( LTR ) is considered to be a mechanism of transcriptional suppression that allows retroviruses to evade host immune responses and antiretroviral drugs. However, the role of epigenetic restriction in HIV-1 latency has never been unambiguously demonstrated. Here, we show in an in vitro model of reactivable latency and in a latent reservoir of virus-infected patients that CpG methylated of the HIV5′LTR acts as a late event during establishment of viral infection and is not required for the initial proviruses silencing. Indeed, some aviremic patients contained high proportions of non-methylated viral DNA, as opposed to the hypomethylated lTR. We found that the latency controlled solely by transcriptionally interference and by chromatin-dependent mechanisms is leaky and easy to reactivate. Tight but incomplete control of HIV latency by DNA methylating might have important implications for strategies aimed at eradicating HIV infection.
Understanding the relationship between genetic and phenotypic variation is one of the great outstanding challenges in biology. To meet this challenge, comprehensive genomic variation maps of human as well as of model organism populations are required. Here, we use an integrative, local assembly-based approach for variant discovery to derive and characterize a genome-wide, nucleotide-resolution catalog of variants including insertions, deletions ( indels ), and complex variants in 39 Drosophila melanogaster lines. We find that variants themselves are not mutagenic, nor are regions with high variant density particularly mutation-prone. Rather, our data suggest that the elevated SNP density around variants is mainly due to population-level processes.
The neural drive to a muscle is the ensemble of discharge timings of motor neurons innervating different muscles and therefore to infer sources of synaptic input to the muscle. Loss of EMG amplitude due to its overlap with motor unit action potentials ( amplitude cancellation ), however, may distort the spectrum of the signal and thereby its correlation with the motor drive. In this study, we investigated the impact of amplitude cancelation on this correlation using analytical derivations and a computational model. We demonstrated analytically that an ideal rectified signal without a reduction in amplitude ( e. g. a no-cancellation condition, which cannot be experimentally measured ) is superior as an estimator of neural drives to muscles. This observation was confirmed by the simulations, as the average coefficient of determination ( r2 ) between the brain and the surface electric motor units in the 1–30 Hz band was matched only when the level of noise cancellation was low ( <5% of maximum voluntary contraction force; MVC ). Moreover, the simulation showed that a stronger brain drive implied a more variable brain than a weaker brain. These results indicate that the use of a rectifying surface electrical motor neuron as a neural model is not feasible in most functional tasks, such as gait.
Aluminium is highly abundant in the soil, but only presents toxicity problems to plants in acid ( pH≤5 ) soils, where it becomes solubilized into the Al3+ ion. The root tip is recognized as the major target of Al stress; in maize, common bean and Arabidopsis thaliana, the distal portion of the root-apex transition zone ( TZ ) is the site for reactive oxygen species production, a class of molecules, which cause root growth inhibition. Here, we report that the YUCCA ( YUC ) family of flavin monooxygenase-like proteins regulates local auxin biosynthesis in root apex transition zones in response to aluminium stress. We show that Al-induced local up-regulation of Yuc5/8/9 is dependent on ethylene signalling. Increasing or disruption of ethyl-2-one ( PEO-IAA ) signalling caused either enhanced or reduced upregulation, respectively, of these genes. PIF4 functions as a transcriptional activator for this process. Our results highlight a regulatory cascade for the local production of local auxiliaryin by the phytohormone auxins in Al.
Natural killer ( NK ) cell responses in primates are regulated in part through interactions between two highly polymorphic molecules, the killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors ( KIRs ) on NK cells and their major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I ligands on target cells. We previously reported that the binding of a common, HLA-Bw4 molecule in the rhesus macaque to the inhibitory receptor Mamu-KIR3DL05 is stabilized by certain simian immunodeficiency virus ( SIV ) peptides, but not by others. Here we investigated the functional implications of these interactions by testing the ability to modulate the cytolytic activity of primary, secondary, and CD8+ T cell epitopes previously shown to stabilize the interaction with the target cell. Our results demonstrate that viral peptide variants can differentially affect NK cell activity and provide a mechanism for immune escape.
Bacterial pathogens must sense, respond and adapt to a myriad of dynamic microenvironmental stressors to survive. Adaptation is key for colonization and long-term ability to endure fluctuations in nutrient availability and inflammatory processes. In this study, we detected microevolution in response to transient heme-iron restriction of nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae ( NTHI ). We observed a single nucleotide polymorphism in icc that abolishes 3’, 5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase activity in the cytoplasm of epithelial cells. Clinically, resolution of OM coincides with the clearance of middle ear fluid, a clinical indicator of disease resolution. This observation suggests that intracellular populations may serve as a reservoir and contribute to both chronic and recurrent disease associated with OM.
Iron plays a central role in host-pathogen-interaction. Iron plays not only multiple roles for bacterial growth and pathogenicity, but also for modulation of innate immune responses. Hepcidin is a key regulator of host iron metabolism triggering degradation of the iron exporter ferroportin. Although iron overload in humans is known to increase susceptibility to Burkholderia pseudomallei, it is unclear how the bacterium competes with the host for the metal during infection. This study aimed to define the changes of macrophage iron homeostasis upon infection and to elucidate the importance of such modifications for host susceptibility or resistance. We found that iron deficiency in human hosts is likely to be a strategy of pathogenic bacteria to improve iron acquisition and restrict antibacterial immune effector mechanisms and thereby to promote its intracellular growth.
Proteins frequently accomplish their biological function by collective atomic motions. Yet the identification of collective motions related to a specific protein function from, e. g., a molecular dynamics trajectory is often non-trivial. Here, we propose a novel technique termed “functional mode analysis” that aims to detect the collective motion that is maximally correlated to the functional quantity. Based on an ensemble of structures, together with an arbitrary ‘functional quantity’ that quantifies the protein's functional state, the technique detects the individual motion in terms of a single number for each input structure. In addition, it can be quite general and could correspond to some geometric, electrostatic, chemical observable, or any other variable that might be relevant to its function. The new approach is illustrated using a number of biomolecules, including a polyalanine-helix, T4 lysozyme, Trp-cage, and leucine binding protein.
Nuclear genes of euglenids and marine diplonemids harbor atypical, nonconventional introns, which are not observed in the genomes of other eukaryotes. In this work, we examined the order of intron removal from Euglena gracilis transcripts of the tubA and gapC genes. We found that the sequence complementary to U1 snRNA at the 5' end has been removed from the pre-mRNA. However, this conformation does not resemble the form of self-splicing or tRNA intron. Moreover, the results obtained differed from previous findings.
Coxsackievirus B ( CVB ) is a common human enterovirus that most commonly causes a self-limited febrile illness in infants, but cases of severe infection can manifest in acute myocarditis. Chronic consequences of mild CV B infection are unknown, though there is an epidemiologic association between early subclinical infections and late heart failure, raising the possibility of subtle damage leading to late-onset dysfunction, or chronic ongoing injury due to inflammatory reactions during latent infection. Here, we describe a mouse model of juvenile infection with a sub-clinical dose of coxsackie and adenoviral receptor ( CAR ), which showed no evident symptoms, either immediately following infection or in adult mice. However following physiological or pharmacologically-induced cardiac stress, juvenile-infected adult animals underwent cardiac hypertrophy and dilation indicative of progression to cardiac failure. We suggest that the exhaustion of CPCs within the heart predisposed the adult animal to stress and stress induced heart disease, and the accumulation of fibrotic tissue – features considered to be the early stages of dilated cardiomyopathy.
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a gram-negative flagellate bacterium that causes melioidosis, a disease endemic to Southeast Asia and northern Australia. The innate immune system provides the first line of defence against microbial infection by the engagement of pattern-recognition receptors including membrane-bound Toll-like receptors ( TLRs ) and cytosolic nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain ( NOD ) -like receptor ( NLR ). NLRs recognize microbial pathogen-associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) leading to activation of host defence pathways that result in clearance of infection. In the present study we show that caspase-1 activation and pyroptosis is exclusively dependent on NLRC4 and NLRP3 in the early phase of macrophage infection, whereas at later time points the activation pathway is independent. We also found that early activation pathways are activated by a functional T3SS3 protein BopE, which is also involved in early and -independent cell death mechanisms. Our results indicate a major role for this protein and a contribution of early NLrc4-dependent and-independent apoptotic signalling pathways in pathogenesis of B. pseudoma.
Pollen–stigma interactions are essential for pollen germination. During the interactions between the pollen and stigma, a series of events occur in succession, including pollen adhesion, hydration, and the polarized growth of pollen tubes across stigmatic tissue. However, determining the mechanisms underlying these interactions remains a major challenge. KINβγ is a plant-specific subunit of the SNF1-related protein kinase 1 complex, which plays important roles in the regulation of plant development. Here, we showed that the Arabidopsis kin βγ mutant pollen could not germinate on the stigma in vitro. Further analysis revealed the hydrate of kinββ-mutated pollen was compromised. The addition of H2O2 partially compensated for the reduced water absorption and reduced ROS levels in pollen by overexpressing the mutant seeds. These results indicate that this complex mediates the biogenesis of mitochondria and peroxisomes and regulates the levels of reactive oxygen species.
Ribonuclease III is a key enzyme for double-stranded ( ds ) RNA processing reactions in both bacterial and eukaryotic systems. In bacteria, it is best known for its role in ribosomal RNA maturation and mRNA turnover. Here we show that the essential role of RNase III in B. subtilis is to protect it from the expression of toxin genes borne by two prophages, Skin and SPβ, through antisense RNA. Thus, while a growing number of organisms that use RNases III or its homologs as part of a viral defense mechanism have evolved to the point where the presence of the enzyme is essential for cell survival.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a Neglected Tropical Disease caused by the parasitic filarial nematodes Brugia malayi and B. timori. LF is transmitted through the bite of infected mosquitoes. Infectious L3 stage worms access the human host, migrate rapidly to the lymphatic vasculature and molt to adult worms, which may live for 10–12 years with females releasing microfilariae ( mf ) larvae for a significant portion of this time. The immune response to infection is complex and can change during the course of infection and the mechanisms by which such manipulation occurs are obscure. An emerging paradigm is the release of extracellular vesicles ( EV ) containing bioactive proteins and small RNA species that allow secretion of parasite effector molecules and their potential trafficking to host tissues. Here we profile EV release from all intra-mammalian life stages of the infectious L2 stage B, L4, adult male and female worms. We show that the process of EV secretion is conserved across the life cycle and that this drug effect is inhibited by ivermectin, a drug that has been shown to be effective against this parasite.
Scabies and impetigo are common, important and treatable skin conditions. Reports from several Pacific island countries show extremely high prevalence of these two conditions, but for many countries, including the Solomon Islands, there is a paucity of epidemiological data. Ten rural villages were included in the study, chosen so that data collection could be integrated with an existing project investigating clinical and serological markers of yaws. All residents were eligible to participate, and 1908 people were enrolled. Participants were interviewed and examined by a paediatric registrar, who recorded relevant demographic information. The total unweighted prevalence was 19. 2% ( 95% confidence interval [CI] 17. 5–21. 0 ) and age and gender weighted prevalence. Scabies was found in infants < 1 year of age ( 34. 1%, adjusted odds ratio [AOR] compared with adults: 3. 6, 96%CI 0. 7–2. 8 ) or with more than two people per room ( 4. 4% of scabies cases also having scabiegs ). In the Western Province, we found that the incidence of both conditions was very high in children aged 1–4 years and adults aged one to four years, with the highest prevalence in adults.
Neurogenesis continues through the adult life of mice in two areas of the mammalian brain, the subventricular zone and dentate gyrus in the hippocampus, but its function remains unclear. Measuring cellular proliferation in a large stock of outbred heterogeneous stock mice revealed a highly significant correlation with the proportions of CD8+ versus CD4+ T lymphocyte subsets. This correlation reflected shared genetic loci, with only the H-2Ea locus that had a dominant influence on T cell subtypes but no impact on brain development. Analysis of knockouts and repopulation of TCRα-deficient mice confirmed that T cells mediate the effect. Our results reveal an organismal impact, broader than hitherto suspected, on the natural genetic variation that controls cell development and homeostasis.
Chagas disease is the most common cause of congestive heart failure related deaths among young adults in the endemic areas of South and Central America and Mexico. No vaccines are currently available. Several investigators have documented that protective immune mechanisms against T. cruzi are constituted of a strong lytic antibody response, cytotoxic T lymphocytes activity, and Th1 cytokines. Therefore, DNA/DNA and protein/protein vaccines have been shown to elicit stronger, long-term cellular immunity against intracellular pathogens. In this study, we tested the protective efficacy of DNA-prime plus protein-boost subunit vaccine ( TcVac2 ) in gearing the antibody, T cell and cytokine responses that provided protection from acute parasitemia and chronic parasite persistence and immunopathology.
Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have been successful in identifying disease susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases. However, for many conditions, these variants still explain only a small proportion of individual differences in disease predisposition or phenotypic diversity; for example, the 54 validated genetic variants that influence human height collectively only explain 4–6% of variation in the trait after adjustment of age and sex. Identifying most of the remaining genetic variance still represents a challenge, albeit tractable for the foreseeable future. Here we propose that sophisticated machine-learning approaches with a large ensemble of markers may improve the performance of disease risk assessment. We applied a Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) algorithm on the Affymetrix genotyping platform for type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) and optimized a risk-assessment model with hundreds of known susceptibility variants. Our study suggests that improved disease assessment can be achieved by using algorithms that take into account interactions between multiple markers.
Memory CD8+ T cells in the circulation rapidly infiltrate non-lymphoid tissues following infection and provide protective immunity in an antigen-specific manner. However, the subsequent fate of these diverse memory T cell populations after entering the skin during a secondary infection is largely unknown. Furthermore, because expression of CD62L is often used to identify the central memory ( TCM ) cell subset, uncoupling the physical requirement for lymph node homing versus other functional attributes remains unresolved. In this study, we show that in contrast to naïve cells, in addition to CD69+/CD103- tissue residents following viral skin infection, memory cells rapidly traffic into and traffic across high endothelial venules and into peripheral lymph nodes to provide protection against Vaccinia virus ( VacV ) infection. We also found that circulating memory CMC-transgenic cells express granzyme B, a cytokine that is required for tissue egress, and that they utilize cytolysis to protect against the virus. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that CD7-expressing cells are able to rapidly establish a protective immune response following a primary infection with the herpesvirus.
In neurons polarized trafficking of vesicle-bound membrane proteins gives rise to the distinct molecular composition and functional properties of axons and dendrites. Despite their central role in shaping neuronal form and function, surprisingly little is known about the molecular processes that mediate polarized targeting of neuronal proteins. Recently, the plus-end-directed motor Myosin Va was shown to play a critical function in targeting transmembrane proteins to dendsrites, but the role of myosins in axonal targeting is unknown. Here, we show that the minus-ended-direct motor ( MYOSIN VI ) plays a vital role by enhancing the concentration of proteins on the surface of the axon. In addition, a version of Channelrhodopsin 2 that was engineered to bind to MyOSin VI is concentrated at the cell surface in mice in vivo, suggesting that it could be a useful tool for probing circuit structure. Together, our results indicate that mymosins help shape the polarized distributions of both axal and Dendritic proteins, and that they might contribute to neuronal function.
Sex determination is a fundamental biological process that affects not only the sexual differentiation of gonads, but also the development of most organs, and leads to sex-specific differences in behavior, physiology and morphology. Genetic sex determination ( GSD ) is attributed to the genetic segregation of genes, often residing on sex chromosomes that initiate alternate sex–determining developmental pathways. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms that regulate sexual dimorphism. Here we report the identification of two Doublesex ( Dsx ) genes from Daphnia magna, a freshwater branchiopod crustacean that parthenogenetically produces males in response to environmental cues. One of these genes is designated DapmaDsx1, which is responsible for the male trait development when expressed during environmental Sex determination. The domain organization of this gene was similar to that of the insect genes and its transcripts were primarily detected in males. Our findings reveal how ESD is implemented by selective expression of a key genetic component that is functionally conserved in animals using G SD. We infer that there is an ancient, previously unidentified link between genetic and environmental sex determined.
Genital herpes infection is emotionally upsetting for many individuals based on concerns of transmission to their partners. A vaccine for genital herpes is urgently needed, yet none is available. Researchers are pursuing a herpes vaccine with the goal of preventing genital lesions and subclinical infection, which is typically measured by genital shedding of HSV-2 DNA. We evaluated a vaccine containing glycoproteins C, D and E ( gC2, gD2 and gE2 ) to block virus entry and immune evasion activities. In rhesus macaques, the trivalent vaccine induced plasma and mucosa neutralizing antibodies, antibodies that block the interaction between the G and C domains, and stimulated CD4 T cell responses. After intravaginal challenge, a self-limited vaginal infection of brief duration was detected by histopathology and immunohistochemistry in naïve, but not in trivent immunized animals. Vaccine efficacy was evaluated in female guinea pigs. Animals were either vaccinated with either a booster dose of the vaccine or a combination of both vaccines. Both groups were 97% and 99% efficacious, respectively. The vaccine has outstanding potential for prevention of herpes in humans.
Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) has become a versatile high throughput assay for profiling of transcription factor binding and histone modifications. However, interactions in highly repetitive regions of genomes have proven difficult to map since short reads of 50–100 base pairs ( bps ) from these regions map to multiple locations in reference genomes. Standard analytical methods discard such multi-mapping reads and the few that can accommodate them are prone to large false positive and negative rates. We develop a probabilistic model that utilizes a prior-enhanced read allocation method for allocating multiple-reading reads in the regions that each read maps to with high accuracy. Our analysis reveals that although the protein-DNA interactions sites are evolutionarily less conserved in repetitive region, they share the overall sequence characteristics of the interaction sites in non-repetitive regions.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic worm infection acquired by contact with contaminated fresh water. Over 90% of the world’s 218 million infections occur in Africa. Prevalence studies suggest that people with chronic infection may have higher risk of HIV infection and impaired ability to control HIV-1 replication once infected. In our study, conducted in an area endemic for S. mansoni, we conducted a nested case-control study within a large ongoing population-based survey of transmission in northwest Tanzania. We found that pre-existing infection increases the odds of acquiring HIV and that the effects may differ between men and women. The study did not examine differential effects by gender. However, it did find that history of anti-schismosome treatment was protective against incident infection.
Ribosomal DNA is one of the most variable regions in the human genome with respect to copy number. Despite the importance of rDNA for cellular function, we know virtually nothing about what governs its copy numbers, stability, and sequence in mammalian genomes due to challenges associated with mapping and analysis. We applied computational and droplet digital PCR ( ddPCR ) approaches to measure the number of copies in normal and cancer states in human and mouse genomes. Surprisingly, human cancer genomes show a decrease in copies, accompanied by global copy-number co-variation. The sequence can also be more variable in cancer genome. Cancer genomes with lower copies have mutational evidence of mTOR hyperactivity, a tumor suppressor that is critical for genome stability and a negative regulator of gene expression. These data suggest that the ribosome DNA can act as a sensor and adaptor to cancer-associated stress.
Mechanistic determinants of bacterial growth, death, and spread within mammalian hosts cannot be fully resolved studying a single bacterial population. They are also currently poorly understood. Here, we report on the application of sophisticated experimental approaches to map spatiotemporal population dynamics of bacteria during an infection. We analyzed heterogeneous traits of simultaneous infections with tagged Salmonella enterica populations ( wild-type isogenic tagged strains [WITS] ) in wild and gene-targeted mice. WITS are phenotypically identical but can be distinguished and enumerated by quantitative PCR, making it possible, using probabilistic models, to estimate bacterial death rate based on disappearance of strains through time. Our analyses support a model in which shortly after infection, concomitant death and rapid bacterial replication lead to the establishment of independent bacterial subpopulations in different organs, a process controlled by host antimicrobial mechanisms. Later, decreased microbial mortality leads to an exponential increase in bacteria that spread locally, with subsequent mixing of the bacteria between organs via bacteraemia and further stochastic selection. This approach provides us with an unprecedented outlook on bacterial pathogenesis, illustrating the complex spatial and non-stochastic effects that drive an infectious disease.
The visual system has to instantaneously perceive 3D motion and to infer direction and speed of a moving object. The inverse problem of local binocular motion perception has been extensively studied but there is a surprising lack of studies on the aperture problem and local motion encoding. In this paper we propose that local velocity constraints in combination with local disparity and other depth cues provide a more flexible framework for the solution of the inverse problems. We derive predictions from two plausible default strategies: ( 1 ) the vector normal prefers slow motion in 3-dimensional space whereas ( 2 ) we establish a global dynamic depth map from higher-order features that helps to disambiguate motion direction.
The O-acetylation of polysaccharides is a common modification used by pathogenic organisms to protect against external forces. Pseudomonas aeruginosa secretes alginate during chronic infection in the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients to form the major constituent of a protective biofilm matrix. Four proteins have been implicated in this modification. AlgJ is an SGNH hydrolase-like protein, which while structurally similar to the N-terminal domain, exhibits a distinctly different electrostatic surface potential. Using two different electrospray ionization mass spectrometry ( ESI-MS ) assays, we identified a conserved catalytic triad composed of D190, H192 and S288. Binding studies using defined length polymannuronic acid revealed that both proteins exhibit either weak or no detectable polymer binding, and both are capable of utilizing the surrogate acetyl-donor 4-nitrophenyl acetate to catalyze the hydrolytic reaction. Our results, combined with previously published in vivo data, suggest that the annotated E-acetyltransferases, AlGJ and algX, have separate and distinct roles.
Candida albicans is one of the most common causes of human fungal infections and is an important source of mortality. Candida species are able to diminish its detection by innate immune cells through masking of β ( 1, 3 ) -glucan in the inner cell wall with an outer layer of heavily glycosylated mannoproteins ( mannan ). However, mutations or drugs that disrupt the cells wall can lead to exposure and unmasking. We studied the impact of these signaling routes in affecting β-1, 2, and 3- and 4-fold exposure of C-type signaling lectin, the phospholipid phosphatidylserine. The homozygous PS synthase knockout mutant, cho1 Δ/Δ, exhibits increased exposure. Several Mitogen Activated Protein Kinase ( MAPK ) pathways and their downstream kinases are important for regulating cell walls biogenesis and remodeling. Disruption of MKC1 does not decrease expression of both Cek1 and Mkc1. Furthermore, hyperactivation of Rho1 in wild type cells increases activation and activation of Mk1/Mkc2. Thus, upregulation of MAP kinase-associated signaling pathways may be responsible for unmasking.
Alzheimer's disease ( AD ) and related dementias are a major public health challenge and present a therapeutic imperative for which we need additional insight into molecular pathogenesis. We performed a genome-wide association study and analysis of known genetic risk loci for AD dementia using neuropathologic data from 4, 914 brain autopsies. Neuropathology data were used to define a clinico-pathological definition of clinical dementia or controls, assess core features of AD ( neuritic plaques, NPs; neurofibrillary tangles ( NFTs ) ), and evaluate commonly co-morbid features observed in older individuals with dementia, i. e., cerebral amyloid angiopathy, Lewy body disease, hippocampal sclerosis of the elderly ( HS ) or VBI. Genome-specific significance was observed for clinical-disease cases and controls with a number of variants in and around the apolipoprotein E gene ( APOE ). GalNAc transferase 7, GALNT7, ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family G, Member 1 ( ABCG1 ) were associated with NP score; and Potassium Large Conductance Calcium-Activated Channel ( KCNMB2 ) was strongly related with HS. Twelve of these 21 non-APOE variants for clinically-defined AD Dementia were confirmed in our study. Correlation of effect sizes for risk of Alzheimer’s disease with effect size for NFPs or NP showed a moderate negative correlation, but no correlation between NPPs and CAA. Our results discovered new genetic associations with specific neuropsychologic features in the largest brain autopsy study of dementia.
Urea is a protein denaturant that has been used for decades in the study of protein folding/unfolding; however, the ultimate reasons of the denaturing properties of urea remain elusive. We recently combined multi-replica molecular dynamics simulations and direct NMR measures of ubiquitin to characterize the “urea unfolded ensemble” of this model protein. Our results suggest that, unlike the unfolded state of aqueous proteins, it is not a mere spectator of unfolding that simply displaces to the right of folded equilibrium. Urea actively favors unfolding: it selects and stabilizes partially unfolded microstates, slowly driving the protein conformational ensemble far from the native one and also from conformations sampled during thermal unfolding.
The epidemiology of dengue disease in Colombia was characterized by a stable “baseline” annual number of cases, with major outbreaks in 2001–2003 and 2010, respectively. The geographical spread of the disease showed a steady increase. Most cases were recorded during the review period in the context of national and regional ( state and district ) trends. Incidence ( by age and sex ), seroprevalence and serotype distribution, and other relevant epidemiological data are described. We also identify gaps in epidemiologic knowledge and provide a basis for defining research priorities.
Tegumentary leishmaniasis ( TL ) is a disease of the skin and mucosal tissues caused by Leishmania parasites. TL patients may concurrently carry other pathogens, which may influence the clinical outcome of TL and vice versa. This review focuses on the frequency of coinfections in human populations and the interactions between the parasite and its host immune response. We searched MEDLINE and other databases and included 73 records: 21 experimental studies in animals and 52 studies about human subjects ( mainly cross-sectional and case studies ). Several reports describe TL as all forms of cutaneous ( localised, disseminated, or diffuse ), mucocutaneous, skin manifestations, and helminthiasis in Brazil. Different hypotheses have been explored about mechanisms of interaction between different microorganisms, but no clear answers emerge. Such interactions may involve innate immunity coupled with regulatory networks that affect quality and quantity of acquired immune responses. Diagnostic problems may occur when concurrent infections cause similar lesions, when different pathogens are present in the same lesions ( e. g., leprosy and sporothrix schenckii ) or when similarities between phylogenetically close pathogens affect accuracy of diagnostic tests.
Genetic variation in the major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) affects CD4∶CD8 lineage commitment and T cell expression. However, the contribution of specific genes in this gene-dense region has not yet been resolved. Here, we assessed the impact of natural genetic variation on the expression of the individual traits colocalized within a region of ∼0. 25 Mb. We mapped Quantitative Trait Loci ( QTLs ) to two adjacent intervals of 1–25 Mb in MHA-I and II regions, respectively. An interaction between these intervals affected the antigenicity of antigen processing genes and CD8 single-positive ( SP ) thymocytes. This interaction was revealed by a recombination between RT1-A and Tap2, which occurred in 0. 2% of rats. Our results show that a restricted peptide repertoire on antigenic molecules leads to reduced negative selection of SP cells.
Chagas disease is a potentially life-threatening illness caused by the protozoan parasite, Trypanosoma cruzi. It is endemic in 21 Latin American countries, and, therefore, it is the European country with the highest expected number of infected patients of the disease. The Spanish Government enacted a Royal Decree in 2012 which basically limits access to free services at the point of delivery for all population ( including non-residents migrants ), undermining the principle of universal coverage which exist in this country since 1986. Up to date, there is no surveillance system implemented in Spain. We used multivariable logistic regression to calculate adjusted odds-ratio ( aOR ) for the association between various conditions and being hospitalized with organ affectation. A total of 1729 hospitalization records were identified. Hospitalization rates were 18 and 242. 8/100000 population, respectively. Our work underlines the need of a nationwide systematic approach towards early detection, especially targeting fertile aged women and relatives from endemic Latin America countries.
Pseudomoniasis is an incurable complex disease that is characterized by hyperproliferation and aberrant differentiation of the epidermis, coupled with marked cutaneous inflammation. Environmental triggers for onset of symptoms have been observed, yet genetic predisposition is strong and heritability has been estimated at 80%. Identifying genetic risk factors and understanding the genetic basis of complex diseases, such as psoriasis, are central goals of medicine and biology. We present BlocBuster, a novel systems-level approach that efficiently constructs genome-wide, allele-specific networks that accurately segregate homogenous combinations of genetic factors, tests the associations of these combinations with the given phenotype, and rigorously validates the results using a series of unbiased validation methods. In addition to improving prediction of disease susceptibility and broadening our understanding of how the disease is caused, these results demonstrate the potential for discovering combinatorial genetic associations within heterogeneous data, thereby transcending the limiting “small effects” produced by individual markers examined in isolation.
Agenesis of the corpus callosum ( ACC ), cerebellar hypoplasia ( CBLH ) and polymicrogyria ( PMG ) are severe congenital brain malformations with largely undiscovered causes. We conducted a large-scale chromosomal copy number variation discovery effort in 545 patients with one or more of these three common brain defects and in 2, 349 controls. Rare genic CNVs were those that impacted at least one exon of a gene in less than 1% of patients and patients. Compared to controls, significantly more ACC, but unexpectedly not CMG patients, had rare genics over one megabase ( p =1. 48×10−3; odds ratio [OR] =3. 19; 95% confidence interval [CI]=0. 89–5. 39 ). Independent qPCR confirmation showed that 9. 4% ( 2. 5% ) of ACC patients had de novo CNV, including deletions of 1p31. 3-p30. 1, 5q11. 2-q13. 11, and 11p14. 6. One ACC patient with microcephaly had a recessive maternally inherited nonsense mutation in the non-deleted allele of NDE1, revealing the complexity of AC genetics.
Regeneration requires the precise integration of cues that initiate proliferation, direct differentiation, and ultimately re-pattern tissues to the proper size and scale. Yet how these processes are integrated with wounding responses remains poorly understood. The freshwater planarian, Schmidtea mediterranea, is an ideal model to study the stereotyped proliferative and transcriptional responses to injury due to its high capacity for regeneration. Here, we characterize the effector of the Hippo signalling cascade, yorkie, during regeneration and its role in restricting early injury responses. In yki ( RNAi ) regenerating animals, wound responses are hyper-activated such that both stem cell proliferation and the transcriptal wound response program are heighted and prolonged. We also uncovered novel wound-induced genes by RNAseq that were de-repressed. Our results suggest that Yki functions as a highly pleiotropic yet critical regulator of multiple early wound reaction processes.
Exosomes are small membrane-encapsulated vesicles that secrete into the extracellular environment. The exosome can deliver its content, such as proteins, lipids, and RNAs, to distal tissues or cells and participate in various biological processes. They have been shown to mediate intercellular communication during viral pathogenesis and immune responses. Their roles in viral infections are beginning to be appreciated. In the current study, we showed that EV71 infection resulted in differential packaging of the viral genomic RNA and miR-146a, a cellular miRNA that is known to suppress type I interferon response in the target cell, thus facilitating the replication. Moreover, our findings provide evidence that the IFN-stimulated gene factors ( ISGs ), BST-2/tetherin, were involved in regulating the upregulation of viral RNA secretion. Importantly, in vivo study showed differential tissue accumulation as compared to free virus particles.
Parkinson's disease ( PD ) is a neurodegenerative disease that affects the maintenance of dopaminergic ( DA ) neurons. PD prevalence is estimated at ∼1% among people over the age of 65 and increases with age. Clinical features of PD include motor abnormalities ( tremor, rigidity, akinesia ), autonomic disturbances, psychiatric disability and cognitive impairment. Two PD-associated genes, PINK1 and Parkin, are associated with early-onset autosomal recessive PD, in which loss-of-function ( LOF ) of a single gene product results in the clinical manifestation of Parkinsonism. In this study, we investigated the molecular mechanism underlying the interaction between the two genes in Drosophila. We found that a mitochondrial protein, PGAM5, modulates the mitochondrial fission pathway. Conversely, loss of dRING-finger protein 5 ( dPINK5NP0568 ) can suppress the muscle degeneration, motor defects, and shorter lifespan that result from dParkin inactivation and that can be attributed to mitochondrial dysfunction. These results suggest that PGam5 negatively regulates the pathway related to maintaining the mitochondria.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a chronic necrotizing human skin disease associated with the production of the cytotoxic macrolide exotoxin mycolactone. Despite extensive research, the type of immune responses elicited against this pathogen and the effector functions conferring protection against BU are not yet fully understood. Here we have re-evaluated the role of interferon-γ for host immune defense against M. ulcers by comparing progression of infection in IFNγ knockout and wild-type mice experimentally challenged with a fully virulent infection. We found that mice lacking interfonγ have a reduced capacity to kill intracellular bacilli during the early intra-macrophage growth phase. This data demonstrates a prominent role in early host immunity and supports the view that concepts for vaccine development against tuberculosis may also be valid for BU.
The oxidative stress associated with increased production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in mitochondria underlies major systemic diseases, including heart disease, age-related degenerative conditions and ischemic syndrome in reperfusion. However, the mechanism of hypoxia-induced change in ROS production is not fully understood. To mathematically analyze this mechanism in details, taking into consideration all the possible redox states formed in the process of electron transport, even for respiratory complex III, a system of hundreds of differential equations must be constructed. Aimed to facilitate such tasks, we developed a new methodology of modeling, which resides in automated construction of large sets of equations. The detailed modeling of electrons in mitochondrial respiration allowed for the identification of two steady state modes of operation at the same microenvironmental conditions. Various perturbations could induce the transition of respiratory chain from one steady to another. While normally complex II is in a low ROS producing mode, temporal anoxias could switch it to a high ROS produced state. This bistable behavior explains the mechanisms of cell damage and our method could be widely used in systems biology studies.
How genes contribute to pattern formation is one of the central questions of modern developmental biology. Traditionally, this question has been addressed using genetic and molecular approaches. Although very powerful, these approaches have several important limitations: First, it is difficult to study expression features which are not specifically affected by a particular mutation ( see below ). Second, there is always some remaining ambiguity whether an interaction is not only necessary, but also sufficient to account for patterning in the wild-type system. It is important to develop complementary approaches that help us to overcome these limitations. Here, we use an integrative, systems-level approach to investigate the regulatory effect of huckebein ( hkb ) on gap gene expression. We present quantitative expression data for the Hkb protein, which enable us use a mathematical model of gene networks used as computational tools to extract regulatory information from data. This is achieved by fitting the model to gap expression patterns, in order to obtain estimates for regulatory parameters which predict a specific network topology.
Brucellosis is a major re-emerging bacterial zoonosis of global importance affecting a range of animal species and man worldwide and is of importance from economic and public health points of view. It remains an uncontrolled problem in regions of high endemicity such as Africa, the Mediterranean, Middle East, parts of Asia and Latin America. The search for improved vaccines for bovines has continued. Phage lysed bacteria retain maximum immunogenicity as opposed to killing by heat or chemical inactivation of bacteria. We report here the successful immunotherapy of Brucella abortus by phage Lysates of RB51 ( RL ) and S19 ( SL ). RL induced strong antibody response and RL stimulated cell mediated immunity. In vitro restimulation of leukocytes from RL immunized cattle induced interferon gamma production. A single subcutaneous dose of 2 ml of cocktail-lysate ( both RL and SL ( ), eliminated live virulent strains of the bacteria and eliminated them by culture in 3 months post-immunization. This is the first report on minimally invasive monitoring of efficacy of antibacterial therapy employing plasma RNA specific for live bacteria as a biomarker.
Cyclin-dependent kinases ( CDKs ) that promote cell-cycle progression are targets for negative regulation by signals from damaged or unreplicated DNA, but also play active roles in response to DNA lesions. The requirement for activity in the face of DNA damage implies that there are mechanisms to insulate certain CDks from checkpoint inhibition. In mammals, Cdk2 is active throughout S and G2 phases of the cell cycle and is dispensable for survival, owing to compensation by other genes. Here, we show that transient, selective inhibition of analog-sensitive ( AS ) CdK2 after exposure to ionizing radiation ( IR ) enhances survival of human cells, which we uncovered by replacement of wild-type mutant with a mutant version sensitized to inhibition by bulky adenine analogs. We also uncovered a specific target of this enzyme within the DNA repair machinery.
In recent years, genome-wide association ( GWA ) studies have driven the discovery of genetic loci associated with a multitude of complex traits and diseases. However, due to linkage disequilibrium ( LD ), the single-nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) assayed in large-scale association studies typically yield a proxy for the actual causative variant ( s ) and often fail to even pinpoint the underlying gene. Therefore, it has been postulated that functional variants may exert their effects through regulation of gene expression, which can vary substantially among tissues and cell types. In a recent study, Gaulton et al. used the formaldehyde-assisted isolation of regulatory elements ( FAIRE ) technique to identify pancreatic islet-specific open chromatin regions, some of which embed known diabetes risk variants. We found that the C- and G-alleles differentially bind the transcription factor EVI1 affecting PIK3CG expression in platelets and macrophages. A protein–protein interaction network including up and down-regulated genes in Pik3cg knockout mice indicated that this locus modulates platelet membrane biogenesis and thrombus formation. Thus, rs342293 is the functional common variant at this region. Our data suggested a molecular mechanism by which a non-coding index SNP may modulate protein expression.
The mechanism ( s ) of action of most commonly used pharmacological blockers of voltage-gated ion channels are well understood; however, this knowledge is rarely considered when interpreting experimental data. Using computer simulations, we demonstrate that this assumption may not always be correct. We simulate the blockade of a persistent sodium current ( INaP ), proposed to underlie rhythm generation in pre-Bötzinger complex neurons, in the intact respiratory network. In this study we provide a mechanistic explanation for seemingly contradictory experimental results from in vitro studies of INAP block, ( 1 ) demonstrate and explain why riluzole application of low concentration tetrodotoxin fails to effectively block the neuron’s intrinsic dynamics from bursting to silence, and ( 2 ) derive a series of experimentally testable predictions.
MicroRNAs play key roles in tumor metastasis. In the present study, we describe the regulation and function of miR-218 in gastric cancer ( GC ) metastatic GC. We show that the expression of one of its host genes, Slit3, is negatively regulated, thus establishing a negative feedback loop. Decreased miRNA levels eliminate Robo1 repression, which activates the Slits-Robo1 pathway through the interaction between Robo-1 and SlIT2, thereby triggering tumor cell invasion. Our findings not only provide new insights into GC development, as well as possible improvements in the diagnosis and treatment of advanced GC, but also revealed a novel regulatory mechanism of receptor signaling.
Atherosclerosis is a lifelong, progressive disease that becomes clinically significant in 50% of the population, leading to myocardial infarction ( MI ), stroke, and eventually death. Statin-based lipid-lowering regimens reduce morbidity and mortality from both MI and stroke but sometimes generate severe side effects. To fully exploit the beneficial effects of lipid lowering, we need a better understanding of transcriptional changes induced by lowering plasma lipoproteins. We used a mouse model that has a plasma lipid profile similar to that of familial hypercholesterolemia and a genetic switch to lower plasma cholesterol ( Ldlr−/−Apo100/100 Mttpflox/Flox Mx1-Cre ) to investigate the effect of cholesterol lowering on the formation of advanced plaques and to identify cholesterol-responsive genes mediating this effect. Validation of siRNA-inhibition in macrophages incubated with acetylated-LDL revealed a network of eight genes regulating lipid accumulation. This network should be of interest for the development of novel therapies to prevent advanced plaque formation. Our results provide, to our best knowledge, the most comprehensive compendium of lesion expression profiles representing known and novel biological processes and pathways activated duri
The cell envelope of Gram-negative bacteria is a formidable barrier that is difficult for antimicrobial drugs to penetrate. Thus, the list of treatments effective against these organisms is small and with the rise of new resistance mechanisms is shrinking rapidly. New therapies are therefore sorely needed. This goal will be greatly aided by a detailed mechanistic understanding of envelope assembly. Although excellent progress in the identification of essential envelope biogenesis systems has been made in recent years, many aspects of the process remain to be elucidated. We therefore developed a simple, quantitative, and high-throughput assay to screen an ordered single-gene deletion library of Escherichia coli. The screen was robust and correctly identified numerous mutants that were involved in envelope formation. Importantly, one of these factors, ElyC ( YcbC ), was characterized further and shown to play a critical role in metabolism of an essential lipid carrier used for the biosynthesis of cell wall and other bacterial surface polysaccharides. Our screening assay described here should be readily adaptable to other organisms to study the Biogenesis of different envelope architectures.
Dynamical processes in biology are studied using an ever-increasing number of techniques. One of the current challenges is to develop systematic approaches for fusing heterogeneous datasets into an integrated view of multivariable dynamics. We illustrate our approach using a dataset from studies of pattern formation in Drosophila. The result is a continuous trajectory that reveals the joint dynamics of gene expression, subcellular protein localization, protein phosphorylation, and tissue morphogenesis. Our approach can be readily adapted to other imaging modalities and forms a starting point for further steps of data analytics and modeling of biological dynamics in three dimensions.
Snake venom hemorrhagic metalloproteinases ( SVMPs ) of the PI, PII and PIII classes were compared in terms of tissue localization and their ability to hydrolyze basement membrane components in vivo, as well as by a proteomics analysis of exudates collected in tissue injected with these enzymes. Immunohistochemical analyses of co-localization of these two classes of enzymes with type IV collagen revealed a striking difference between the action of PI and non-hemorrhagic enzymes regarding several extracellular matrix components and fibrinogen, whereas the three enzymes showed a similar pattern of degradation of this component. Our results provide novel clues for understanding the mechanisms by which these toxins induce damage to the microvasculature and generate hemorrhage.
The homeotic genes in Drosophila melanogaster are aligned on the chromosome in the order of the body segments that they affect. The genes affecting the posterior segments repress the more anterior genes. Abdominal-B ( Abd ) represses abd-A, but also has a second, redundant repression mechanism that acts only “in cis. ” Transcriptional interference is the most likely mechanism.
Focal seizures are episodes of pathological brain activity that appear to arise from a localised area of the brain. The onset patterns of focal seizure activity have been studied intensively, and they have largely been distinguished into two types—low amplitude fast oscillations ( LAF ), or high amplitude slow ( HAS ). Here, we use a previously established computational model of neocortical tissue as an adequate model to reproduce the clinical observations. We show that the two patterns are associated with different mechanisms at the spatial scale of a single ECoG electrode. In contrast, the HAS onset is a global, systemic transition to a coexisting seizure state triggered by local event. Our modelling results suggest that changes in tissue excitability may play a determining role in the seizure onset pattern, as well as the surgical outcome.
In contrast to animals and lower plant species, sperm cells of flowering plants are non-motile and are transported to the female gametes via the pollen tube, i. e. the male gamete. Upon arrival at the receptive synergid cell to execute double fertilization, the first players involved in inter-gametophyte signaling to attract pollen tubes and to arrest their growth have been recently identified. Here, we describe the role of polymorphic defensin-like cysteine-rich proteins ZmES1-4 ( Zea mays embryo sac ) from maize, leading to growth arrest, burst, and explosive sperm release. We found that the protein is exclusively expressed in the cell of the fertilized egg sac and that it accumulates in vesicles at a secretory zone of mature synergids surrounding the filiform apparatus before fertilizing. Subsequent interaction with the K+ channel KZM1 results in channel opening and influx and culminates in osmotic tube burst. The species-preferential activity of this protein represents a pre-zygotic hybridization barrier and may be a component of reproductive isolation in plants.
Oncolytic viruses aim to specifically kill tumor cells. A major challenge is the effective targeting of disseminated tumors in vivo. We retargeted herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) tropism to HER-2 oncoprotein p185, overexpressed in ovary and breast cancers. Here, we performed the preclinical evaluation of i. p. administered R-LM249 against peritoneal metastases of human ovarian carcinoma in mouse models that recapitulate tumor spread to the Peritoneum in women. Our results showed that the administration of r- LM249 strongly inhibited carcinomatosis, resulting in a 60% reduction in the total weight of neoplastic nodules. Intraperitoneally-injected human breast cancer cells were also reduced. Cumulatively, upon administration, the HER -2-redirected oncogene effectively reduced the growth of ovarian and mammary carcinomas.
Centrosomes serve as the poles of the mitotic spindle in eukaryotic cells. Centrosome duplication only once per cell cycle is critical for proper chromosome segregation and is controlled in part by cyclin-dependent kinases ( Cdks ). However, an understanding of how Cdk1 regulates this process is still lacking. In this study, we show that phosphoregulation of Sfi1, a conserved component of centroomes, is required for SPB duplication. We also demonstrate that the protein phosphatase Cdc14 has the converse role of activating licensing, likely via dephosphorylation. Our findings lead to a model whereby phosphorylating of a specific protein by Cdt1 has a dual function of promoting spindles separation for replication and preventing premature duplication of SPBs.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) encodes four viral accessory proteins: Vif, Vpu, Nef, and Vpr. Based on their function and phenotype, primary CD4+ T cells are known to induce G2 cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in infected cells in vitro. In addition, vpr is highly conserved in transmitted/founder HIV and in all primate lentiviruses, which are evolutionarily related to HIV. Although these findings suggest an important role of viral protein R ( VPR ), its direct evidence in vivo has not been shown. Here, by using a human hematopoietic stem cell-transplanted humanized mouse model, we demonstrate that the virus-deficient virus enhances virus replication and Treg depletion in CCR5-tropic but not CXCR4 tropic wild-type ( R5 ) infected mice, suggesting that these effects are dependent on the coreceptor usage by HIV to enhance virus production. Our results suggest that V-pr takes advantage of proliferating T cell subsets for enhancing viremia of the host immune system during acute infection.
Vivax malaria was successfully eliminated in South Korea in the late 1970s due to an effective program implemented by the National Malaria Eradication Service of the South Korean government with support from the WHO. In order to control malaria and evaluate the effectiveness of malaria controls, it is important to develop a spatiotemporal understanding of parasite population dynamics. Here, we estimated the population structure and temporal dynamics of transmission of Plasmodium vivaax in Korea by analyzing microsatellite DNA markers. Allelic data were used to analyze linkage disequilibrium ( LD ), genetic differentiation and population size. We found that the LD analysis showed a gradual decrease in LD levels, while the levels of genetic divergence between successive years and analysis of populations structure based on the Bayesian approach suggested that a drastic genetic change occurred during 2002 and 2003. Although relapse and asymptomatic parasite carriage might influence the parasite structure to some extent, our results suggested the continual introduction of P. vavax into Southorea through other parasite populations sources. One possible source, particularly during 2003 and 2002, is North Korea. Molecular epidemiology using genetic analysis is effective for assessing the genetic structure of parasites and to provide a possible explanation as to why, in spite of a continuous malaria control program, efforts to eliminate vivx malaria have been unsuccessful.
Intron-mediated enhancement of transcription is an evolutionarily conserved feature among eukaryotes. The molecular mechanism underlying the phenomenon, however, is not entirely clear. Here we show that the transcription of mRNA is favored over the upstream antisense transcripts ( uaRNA ) initiating from the promoter in the presence of an intron. Mutation of either the 5′ or 3′ splice site resulted in a reversal of promoter directionality, thereby conferring promoter-initiated transcription. We provide evidence that gene looping is crucial for the recruitment of termination factors near the promoters-proximal region. This was accompanied by a concomitant loss of transcribed expression.
Strong selection for lean growth in the domestic pigs during the last 60 years has resulted in increased muscle growth and reduced fat deposition. This quantitative trait nucleotide ( QTN ) is one of the rare examples in which a single base substitution underlying a complex trait has been identified and the mechanism of action is partially understood. Here, we report the identification of a protein that abrogates a binding site for a repressor and leads to a 3-fold up-regulation of IGF2 in skeletal muscle. The protein, named ZBED6, is previously unknown and is derived from an exapted DNA transposon. Silencing of Zbed6 in mouse C2C12 myoblasts affected Igf2 expression, cell proliferation, wound healing, and myotube formation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) sequencing identified about 2, 500 binding sites in a genome corresponding to the wild-type sequence. We found that the protein binds to its target site only when it is unmethylated, suggesting that this protein is an important transcription factor in placental mammals.
RNA editing is a co-transcriptional process that alters hereditary information by introducing differences between RNA and its corresponding DNA sequence. The investigation of such regulation accelerated dramatically after the development of next generation sequencing technology, which facilitates the genome-wide determination of DNA and RNA sequences at relatively low cost; however, several issues regarding this regulatory step remain unresolved – the strategies to accurately delineate the editome, the mechanism by which its profile is maintained, its evolutionary and functional relevance. Here we report an accurate and quantitative profile of the RNA editingome for rhesus macaque, a close relative of human. By combining genome and transcriptome sequencing of multiple tissues from the same animal, we identified 31, 250 editing sites, of which 99. 8% are A-to-G transitions. We verified 96. 6% of these sites in coding regions and 97. 5% in non-coding regions, as well as the corresponding levels of editing by multiple independent means, demonstrating the feasibility of our experimental paradigm. Several lines of evidence supported the notion that the adenosine deamination ( ADAR ) substrate is associated with the editing site, suggesting the evolutionary constraint in maintaining some editing substrates with their double-stranded structure. These findings thus complement the “continuous probing” model that postulates tinkering-based origination of a small proportion of functional editing sequences.
Perceptual decisions in a wide range of visual tasks ultimately rely on information encoded in neural responses in primary visual cortex ( V1 ). However, this information may not be readily available to higher levels of the visual system because it is distributed across entire populations of neurons. Thus, each neuron's reliability is limited by intrinsic response variability and its relevance strongly depends on the perceptual task in which the organism is engaged. To form accurate perceptual judgements, the brain thus needs to pool sensory responses efficiently, decoding the population response into a reliable decision variable. We report a new perceptual bias suggesting that observers read out the likelihood representation with remarkably low precision when discriminating grating spatial frequencies. Using spectrally filtered noise, we induced an asymmetry in the probability of spatial frequency. This manipulation mainly affects the frequencies that are irrelevant to the task at hand. Nevertheless, our results show a significant shift in perceived noise.
Piwi-interacting RNAs ( piRNAs ) fulfill a critical, conserved role in defending the genome against foreign genetic elements. In many organisms, piRNA sequences appear to be derived from processing of a long, polycistronic RNA precursor. Here, we demonstrate that each Caenorhabditis elegans pi RNA represents a tiny, autonomous transcriptional unit. Remarkably, the minimal C. elegan genome encodes only a 21 nucleotide ( nt ) RNA sequence and an ∼50-nt upstream motif with limited genomic context for expression. Combining computational analyses with a novel, in vivo transgenic system to determine which sequences are expressed in male or female germline, and comparison of the genes they target suggests that these two populations have evolved independently. Together, our results indicate that the ∼15, 000 unique sequences encoded in the entire genome are independent of each other.
Brucella spp. replicate within host cells in the form of endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) -derived vacuoles. The mechanisms by which the bacteria are sequestered into such vacosomes and obtain a continuous membrane supply for their replication remain to be elucidated. In the present study, we provide several lines of evidence that demonstrate the mechanism of the intracellular life of B. abortus. First, the unfolded protein response ( UPR ) was activated in a time-dependent manner, but not the PERK and ATF6 pathways, and the COPII vesicle components Sar1, Sec23 and Sec24D were upregulated. Second, a marked accretion of ER-derived membrane compartments was observed around replicating bacteria using fluorescent microscopy. Third, Yip1A, which regulates the phosphorylation of IRE1 through high-order assembly of Ire1 molecules at ER exit sites, was required for these processes. We found that the autophagy-related proteins Atg9 and WIPI1 and DFCP1 were required to the biogenesis of this process.
Tombusviruses depend on subversions of multiple host factors and retarget cellular pathways to support viral replication. In this work, we demonstrate that tomato bushy stunt virus ( TBSV ) and the closely-related carnation Italian ringspot virus, which are closely related to CIRV, recruit the cellular Vps34 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( PI3K ) into the large virus replication compartment in model yeast and plant hosts. We also observed increased expression of the p33 replication protein and higher abundance of PI ( 3 ) P in the presence of tombusviral replication proteins, suggesting that the vesicle transport function is required for the replication of these two viruses.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) remains the most prevalent of the mosquito-borne viruses, with patterns of disease varying geographically based on the co-circulation of serotypes 1–4, different virus genotypes, human population growth and migration, including urbanization, and geographic expansion of mosquito vectors. While infections in humans have been extensively studied in clinic- and community-based studies, examining the infectiousness of virus from humans to mosquitoes has faced challenges related to methods and perceived acceptability. In this study, we assessed artificial and natural blood feeding methods in mosquitoes fed directly on humans or on blood collected from participants that was either untreated or treated with EDTA. Mosquitoes were tested after approximately 14 days of extrinsic incubation for infection and dissemination within mosquitoes. Infection rates were not significantly different following direct and indirect feeding; however, they were significantly lower for mosquitoes that fed indirectly on human blood with no additive. Dissemination rates showed greater variation following indirect-EDTA feeding compared to direct-no additive feeding. No differences were detected in infection or dissemination rates in mosquito fed direct on participants with different dengues illness severity. Direct mosquito feeding is preferable in terms of logistical ease, biosecurity and reliability.
Many chemotherapeutic drugs are differentially effective from one patient to the next. Understanding the causes of this variability is a critical step towards the development of personalized treatments and improvements to existing medications. The roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans has the advantages of both S. cerevisiae and D. melanogaster because large cross populations can be generated to study the physiological effects of small molecules and repurposed as screening platforms to identify new antineoplastic compounds. However, the predictive power of these identified genetic variants is inconsistent due to biases in the sampled population and other key limitations of clinical genome-wide association ( GWA ) studies that attempt to link genetic variation with treatment outcomes. Here, we show that variation in a specific amino acid ( Q797M ) underlies the observed phenotypic variation. We hypothesize that this stabilizing interaction results in increased genomic instability in strains that contain a methionine residue. This residue is conserved from yeast to humans and is one of the few differences between the two human topoisomerase II isoforms. These results demonstrate the utility of using C. nemans natural variation to understand the genetics of drug responses.
Most of the available information about the genetic mechanisms that govern lifespan and aging were obtained by studying single-gene mutations in invertebrates or short-lived, highly inbred vertebrate species. However, it is not clear whether insights about aging relevant genes and pathways gained from these species can be applied to long- lived species like humans. To gain new insights into genetic mechanism determining mammalian lifespans, we obtained genomic and transcriptomic data from 17 rodent species and scanned eleven evolutionary branches associated with the evolution of enhanced longevity for positively selected genes ( PSGs ). Indicating relevance for aging, the set of 250 identified PSG showed in liver of long–lived naked mole-rats and short lived rats an expression pattern that fits the antagonistic pleiotropy theory of aging. Among these enriched genes were cellular respiration and “metal ion homeostasis”, as well as functional terms related with processes regulated by the mTOR pathway: translation, autophagy and inflammation. Remarkably, among these genes are RHEB, a regulator of m TOR, and IGF1, both central components of an aging-relevant pathway. Our results provide a meaningful resource for follow-up studies to mechanistically link identified gene and amino acids under positive selection to aging and lifespan determination.
Despite control measures applied worldwide over decades, arthropod-borne diseases continue to pose a constant threat to human and domestic animal health. Human-induced changes in the environment, climate change, passive transportation and acquisition of resistance to insecticides by the vectors are contributing to a dramatic re-emergence of harmful viruses such as dengue and yellow fever ( DENV ) transmitted by mosquitoes. As well, further pathogens are rapidly spreading in areas where suitable vectors and environmental conditions are present and are showing a day by day increasing status of pathogenic relevance. These are the cases of chikungunya ( CHIKV; Alphavirus, Togaviridae ) and Zika virus. Aedes albopictus, the Asian tiger mosquito, demonstrated a key epidemiological role when abundant in Europe in recent years. In the present study, a new transinfection ( ARwP-M ) was generated by introducing wMel Wolbachia from Drosophila melanogaster, which had been established previously by replacing wAlbA with the wPip strain. This strain was found to produce functionally sterile males and/or invasive females with reduced vector competence. The results regarding Zika Virus did not highlight significant differences between the two strains. Therefore, these findings are expected to promote the exploitation of the endosymbiotic bacterium to suppress the wild-type Ae. aegypti populations.
Many biological responses to intra- and extracellular stimuli are regulated through complex networks of transient protein interactions where a globular domain in one protein recognizes a linear peptide from another, creating a relatively small contact interface. These binding patterns are often found in unstructured regions of proteins, and contain a consensus motif complementary to the interaction surface displayed by their binding partners. While most current methods for the de novo discovery of such motifs exploit their tendency to occur in disordered regions, our work here focuses on another observation: upon binding to their partner domain, the binding motif adopts a well-defined structure. Indeed, through the analysis of all interactions of known high-resolution three-dimensional ( 3D ) structure, we found that the structure of the peptides may be as characteristic as the pattern. Our analyses of these structural features reveal that they tend to have a particular stretched and elongated structure that does not match the established patterns of their corresponding interaction types and therefore could not be found by a procedure based on known patterns. Thus we have implemented a strategy, along with other structure-encoded information about binding interfaces, to search the set of protein-protein interactions and to identify unnoticed interactions among them.
Environmental enteropathy ( EE ) is associated with growth failure, micronutrient malabsorption and impaired responses to oral vaccines. We set out to define cellular mechanisms of impaired barrier function in EE and explore protective mechanisms. Using confocal laser endomicroscopy ( CLE ), we studied 49 adults in Lusaka, Zambia. CLE images ( median 134 for each study ) showed virtually ubiquitous small intestinal damage. Epithelial defects were predominantly seen at the tips of villi and corresponded with leakage imaged in vivo by CLE. In multivariate analysis, circulating log-transformed LPS was correlated with cell shedding events, tight junction protein expression ( claudin 4 ) and with serum glucagon-like peptide-2 ( β = -0. 13; P = 0. 007 ). Zinc uptake from a test dose of 25mg was attenuated in 30/47 ( 64% ) individuals and was reduced by HIV. GLP 2 and other protective peptides may play an important role in mucosal protection.
Superinfection exclusion ( SIE ) refers to the ability of a pre-existing virus ( the primary invader ) to exclude secondary infections by the same or closely related viruses ( superinfectors ) at cellular and/or organismal levels. This phenomenon has been observed with many human and animal pathogenic viruses, including the reverse-transcribing human immunodeficiency virus, positive sense ( + ) RNA viruses such as hepatitis C virus and West Nile virus. In this study, we uncover a novel role of p28, one of the two replication proteins encoded by turnip crinkle ( TCV ), in blocking the re-infections of host cells by a different virus variant. P28-mediated repression is dramatically enhanced by epitope tags or fluorescent proteins, but weakened by N-terminal modifications, and it inversely correlates with the capacity to complement the replication of, or complement, a non-coalescing, sie-defective, yet replication-competent mutant. These results support a model postulating that TC V Sie is caused by multimeric p27 complexes capable of intercepting fresh p29 monomers translated from super infector genomes, thereby abolishing super-inoculating viruses and offering novel targets for antiviral therapy.
The Trypanosoma cruzi trans-sialidase ( TS ) gene is expressed on blood form trypomastigotes, and is also present during early and late stage intracellular infection. TS cleaves sialic acid, which seems to be required for parasite infectivity, but toxic side effects limit their use. Because of the high risk of infection and disease in endemic countries and the lack of well tolerated trypanocidal drugs, a safe and effective vaccine is needed. In this work, we describe the enhancement of long-term CD8+ T cell responses and protection against lethal systemic challenge in mice ( >6 months post vaccination ) after vaccination with a combination of DNA vaccines encoding both TS and IL-15.
The Polo-like kinase homolog in Trypanosoma brucei, TbPLK, plays essential roles in basal body segregation, flagellum attachment and cytokinesis in a wide variety of eukaryotes. Here, we report the Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase complex, which is composed of the DNA damage-binding protein 1 and a WD40-repeat protein WDR1, and is responsible for controlling the abundance of protein in both the basal and the bilobe during the cell cycle transition from G1 to S phase. Depletion of this complex impaired the phosphorylation of a protein-protein complex that is known to be involved in the regulation of cell division and cell adhesion. These findings revealed the mechanism underlying the stringent control of TBPK protein abundance to ensure the proper segregation of cells and to promote the development of new cell types.
DExD/H box RNA helicases, such as the RIG-I-like receptors ( RLR ), are important components of the innate immune system. Here we demonstrate a pivotal and sex-specific role for the heterosomal isoforms of DDX3X in innate immunity to Listeria monocytogenes ( Lm ). Mice lacking the receptor for type I interferon ( IFN ) in the hematopoietic system showed an altered leukocyte composition in bone marrow and spleen and a striking inability to combat infection. Alterations in immune responses resulted from decreased effector cell availability and function as well as a sex dependent impairment of cytokine synthesis. Thus, our data provide further in vivo evidence for an essential contribution of a non-RLR DEx-DexD-H RNA helase to host immunity and suggest it may contribute to sex differences in resistance to microbes and resilience to inflammatory disease.
Olfactory receptor neurons ( ORNs ) are essential for the recognition of odor molecules. In insects a smaller number of ORs have been identified, but the full description of such a complex signaling network, involving both feedforward and feedback processes, is a daunting task. Modeling can contribute to this description by integrating various effects and displaying quantitatively what results from the interplay of all molecular actors. The knowledge accumulated on the pheromonal ORN is sufficient to start building a model of its transduction cascade, and to test whether it can effectively link together some of the known facts and suggest new experiments. Thus, the first aim of our investigation was to develop a qualitative model that takes into account all pre-effector processes—the production and degradation of second messengers ( IP3 and DAG ) and ionic channels ( Ca2+- and voltage-gated K+ channel ), through a so-called ionotropic pathway. We made a systematic search of known values and determined the unknown values by fitting the model output to the properties of an experimentally measured RP. It suggests that the two main types of depolarizing channels play different roles at low and high concentrations. Several testable predictions are proposed and future developments are discussed.
Tumor suppressor p53 is activated in response to DNA damage and cellular stress signals and regulates the expression of target genes to elicit cell-growth arrest, DNA repair repair, or apoptosis to prevent the propagation of damaged or compromised cells. Understanding the regulatory logic and functional output of p3 is critical to understanding p54 biology in normal and tumor cell lines. We have used a well-characterized lymphoblastoid cell culture exposure model system to explore the role of chromatin status and local transcriptional regulatory elements in the induced transcription factor ( TF ) occupancy response. Our study sheds new light on the complex interrelationship between chromatological state and P53RE sequence in transcription transcription and gene transactivation, and suggests the importance of considering the interactions of sequence content and epigenetic factors in interpreting transcription-mediated stress responses.
Synthetic biology aims to design de novo biological systems and reengineer existing ones. These efforts have mostly focused on transcriptional circuits, with reengineering of signaling circuits hampered by limited understanding of their systems dynamics and experimental challenges. Bacterial two-component signaling systems offer a rich diversity of sensory systems that are built around a core phosphotransfer reaction between histidine kinases and their output response regulator proteins. Here, we explore the signal-response relationship arising from a specific motif found in two component signaling. We show that, under the experimentally observed parameters from bacteria and yeast, this motif not only allows rapid signal termination, whereby one of the RRs acts as a phosphate sink towards the other RR ( i. e. the output RR ), but also implements a sigmoidal signal response relationship. This system is able to implement tunable switch-like signal processing and provides an ideal basis for developing threshold devices for synthetic biology applications.
In many systems, individual cells within isogenic populations can show significant variation in stress tolerance, but the nature of this heterogeneity is not clear. We used single-cell RNA sequencing to quantify transcript heterogeneity in single Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells treated with and without salt stress to explore population variation and identify cellular covariates that influence the stress-responsive transcriptome. Leveraging the extensive knowledge of yeast transcriptional regulation, we uncovered significant regulatory variability in individual yeast cells, both before and after stress, and we also discovered that a subset of cells appears to decouple expression of ribosomal protein genes from the environmental stress response in a manner partly correlated with the cell cycle but unrelated to the yeast ultradian metabolic cycle. Our results suggest that cells maintain a cellular filter against decoupled bursts of transcription factor activation, even in unstressed cells.
Trypanosoma brucei is a protozoan parasite transmitted between mammals by the bite of a tsetse fly. It has been recently shown that parasites accumulate in large numbers in various organs and tissues, including the mouse testis. Whether parasites are protected from the immune system in the male reproductive organ or can be transmitted through sexual route remains unknown. In this work we show that the majority of the parasites in this organ accumulate outside seminiferous tubules and epididymal ducts, in niches that are not protected by both blood-testis, nor blood/epididimis barriers. This disruption of both barriers is associated with marked inflammatory cell infiltration, parasite degeneration, and severe tissue damage and rupture, which may be related with reduced fertility. Overall, this study opens the possibility of using fine needle aspiration cytology as a complementary diagnostic tool in Animal African Trypanomiasis.
Chemosensation is critical for animal survival, as chemical cues direct foraging behavior and food selection, predator avoidance, and, in insects, host plant recognition for oviposition and larval feeding. Chemical signals are also essential for the selection of mating partners, maternal behavior, kin recognition. As a consequence of the profound importance of chemicalensation for survival and reproduction, several large families of chemosensory genes have evolved through repeated processes of gene duplication and diversification, including genes that encode odorant receptors and gustatory receptors. In addition, large multigene families aimed at eliminating toxic chemicals have emerged, most prominently the cytochrome P450 superfamily. We asked whether expression of certain chemoreceptor genes would be especially sensitive to environmental changes; whether genes within a cluster act as co-regulated functional ensembles? To answer these questions we used Drosophila melanogaster, because it is well characterized and both the genotype and environment can be controlled precisely. Using customized cDNA microarrays that enable us to survey simultaneously gene expression, we showed that expression is regulated independently at different developmental stages and between sexes. Expression of distinct subgroups of genes is highly correlated with reproductive state and social interactions. This finely pixilated modular organization enables fine tuning of transcriptional regulation in response to ecologically relevant environmental and physiological conditions.
Meiotic errors generate an extraordinary number of chromosome abnormalities in humans, with most of the abnormalities originating in the first meiotic division in oocytes. Studies of human trisomies indicate that a proportion of homologs are either achiasmate or tethered by sub-optimally located crossovers. However, it is assumed that these configurations become more likely to nondisjoin during maternal meiosis I or II. In this study, we used immunofluorescence in situ hybridization ( FISH ) to analyze the number and distribution of crossover-associated proteins ( e. g., MLH1 ) in human fetal oocyte. Our results provide evidence for the presence of “vulnerable” crossover configurations, consistent with the idea that such configurations are subsequently translated into non-interfering crossover events.
When a mammal is bitten by a blood feeding arthropod, it is injected with vasodilatory and immunomodulatory compounds that facilitate feeding. These compounds are injected into the saliva of an uninfected vector, and the resulting saliva induces a variety of immune responses. In Leishmania, from which the majority of empirical evidence is available, experimental rodent infections have demonstrated that prior exposure to sand fly saliva partially protects against the symptoms of a subsequent infection. However, the immunological and clinical consequences are largely uncharted for other vector-parasite-host combinations. We find a large range of plausible epidemiological outcomes, positive and negative for public health, underscoring the need to quantify how immune pre-sensitisation modulates recovery and transmission rates.
Leishmaniasis is an important disease that affects 12 million people in 88 countries, with 2 million new cases every year. The human L. amazonensis infection may lead to different clinical forms, varying from localized ( LCL ) with moderate cellular hypersensitivity to parasite’s antigens. One interesting issue rarely analyzed is how the host immune response affects Leishmania phenotype and virulence. Aiming to study the effect of host immunity system on the proteomes of amastigotes isolated from BALB/c and BAL/b nude mice, we compared the expression of 44 differentially expressed spots. Among the 44 proteins, there were proteins related to oxidative/nitrosative stress and proteases. Specific isoforms of these two proteins were increased in parasites from nude mouse, suggesting that T cells probably restrain their posttranslational modifications. On the other hand, an isoform of HSP70 was increased. We believe our study may allow identification of potential virulent factors and ways of regulating their expression.
Activation Induced Deaminase ( AID ) deaminates cytosines in DNA to initiate immunoglobulin gene diversification and to reprogram CpG methylation in early development. Activation-induced damage can have pathological outcomes, evident as the chromosomal translocations associated B cell malignancies. Here we show that cell cycle regulates nuclear stability and abundance. By high content screening microscopy, we demonstrate that nuclear degradation occurs more slowly in G1 phase than in S or G2/M phase cells, and that mutations that affect regulatory phosphorylation or catalytic activity can alter the nuclear localization, stability or physiological activity of a low-abundance protein. We identify derivatives that accelerate somatic hypermutation with minimal impact on viability, which will be useful tools for engineering genes and proteins by iterative mutagenesis and selection.
Plants annually produce 200 billion tons of lignocellulosic biomass, which is a vast potential feedstock that industrial microbes could convert into energy and commodities. Elucidating how microbes depolymerize and metabolize plant biomass is thus important to understand carbon flow in the environment, to promote healthy human nutrition and prevent disease, and to develop industrial processes. Here we demonstrate a broadly applicable method to analyze the enzymatic machinery used by microbes to degrade plant polysaccharides that integrates carbohydrate-active enzyme ( CAZyme ) assays, RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) and anaerobic growth screening. We demonstrate how this method can be integrated to further our understanding of how microbial metabolism of plants is regulated.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) and onchocerciasis are two of the major neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) presently targeted for elimination using the World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommended strategy of preventive chemotherapy and transmission control ( PCT ). In 2008 alone, 56. 7 million people received treatment in 19 endemic African countries. Three integrated annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) were conducted in the 12 co-endemic districts 2008–2010 with good geographic, programme and drug coverage. Midterm assessment was conducted 2011 to determine impact of these MDAs on LF in these districts. The mf prevalence and intensity in 12 districts were determined using thick blood film method and results compared with baseline data from 2007–2008. Overall LF prevalence fell from 2. 6% to 0. 3%, a decrease of 88. 5%. Mf density reduced by 65. 0% ( 95% CI: 5. 8%–22. 2% ) in four districts: Bo, Moyamba, Kenema and Kono, while the community microfilaria load decreased by over 90% for the entire population examined. After the civil war in Sierra Leone, during which almost all health programmes had stopped, the Ministry of Health and Sanitation ( MOHS ) had decided to put the control of all non-fatal diseases under the existing oncological control programme with 1 ( one ) programme manager responsible for all NCDs and working in close collaboration with strong district health management teams ( DHMTs. It was decided that running vertical programmes for NTBs will be inefficient given the post war situation and the limited number of health workers and so the national coordination was implemented. Since 2003 annual mDA with ivermectin and albendazole has been implemented since then.
High-throughput sequencing based techniques, such as 16S rRNA gene profiling, have the potential to elucidate the complex inner workings of natural microbial communities - be they from the world's oceans or the human gut. A key step in exploring such data is the identification of dependencies between members of these communities, which is commonly achieved by correlation analysis. However, it has been known since the days of Karl Pearson that correlation estimates are biased by the fact that, since they must sum to 1, fractions are not independent and tend to have a negative correlation regardless of the true correlation between the underlying absolute abundances. In fact, correlations estimates often take the form of relative fractions of genes or species, rather than their absolute abundance. To illustrate a potential application of SparCC, we infer a rich ecological network connecting hundreds of interacting species across 18 sites, and show that community diversity is a key factor that modulates the acuteness of such compositional effects.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading extracellular Gram-positive pathogen that commonly colonizes the human nasopharynx. Although colonization is generally asymptomatic, infection induces an acute inflammatory response characterized by a brisk influx of neutrophils. Because the organism is coated by capsular polysaccharide ( CPS ) covalently attached to its cell wall, it is capable of evading phagocytic clearance and causing invasive disease. The contribution of lysozyme to innate host defense has been analyzed in genetically- modified mice. Here we show that the antimicrobial effect is due to the muramidase activity and that both peptidoglycan modifications are required for full resistance by pneumococci. Our findings demonstrate the importance of resistance to muramate deacetyltransferase ( PgdA ) and attenuator of drug resistance ( Adr ) in dictating the composition of mucosal surfaces of the upper airway.
Dengue is the most important arthropod borne viral disease worldwide in terms of morbidity and mortality and is caused by any of the four serotypes ( DENV-1 to 4 ). In Brazil, the disease is an important public health problem associated with explosive epidemics and since the introduction in 1986, a total of 5, 944, 270 cases were reported including 21, 596 hemorrhagic fever and 874 fatal cases. Currently, laboratorial diagnosis of patients is based on virus isolation in mosquito cell cultures, detection of viral RNA and viral antibodies in serum or plasma, and the implementation of measures aimed at the control and prevention of outbreaks. The use of NS1 capture tests as a diagnostic technique is of great importance for proper care and treatment of patient. Here, we aimed to assess for the first time the usefulness of non-invasive methods to detect DENDV in tissue specimens from previously confirmed fatal case of yellow fever that occurred in 2002 in Brazil. This study was used tissues homogenates from fatal dengues that occur in the Americas.
Multiple Myeloma ( MM ) is a malignancy of plasma cells with significantly greater incidence and mortality rates among African Americans ( AA ) compared to Caucasians ( CA ). The overall goal of this study is to elucidate differences in molecular alterations in MM as a function of self-reported race and genetic ancestry. Our study utilized whole exome sequencing, RNA-sequencing, and correlated clinical data from 718 MM patients from a multi-ethnic cohort at diagnosis to further understand the biological determinants of MM pathogenesis. We observed a significant difference in mutation frequency of BCL7A, BRWD3, AUTS2, TP53 and IRF4 with frequencies higher among CA cases. This study provides rationale for interrogating diverse tumor cohorts to best understand tumor genomics across populations.
The vast majority of mutations in the exome of cancer cells are passengers, which do not affect the reproductive rate of the cell. However, passenger mutations can provide important information about the evolutionary history of an individual cancer, and serve as a molecular clock. Passengers can also become targets for immunotherapy or confer resistance to treatment. We study the stochastic expansion of a population of tumor cells describing the growth of primary tumors or metastatic lesions. In this work, we analyze the process by looking forward in time and calculate the fixation probabilities and frequencies of each passenger mutation ordered by their time of appearance. Fitting this formula to cancer sequencing data leads to an estimate for the ratio of birth and death rates of tumors during the early stages of clonal expansion.
Polyglutamine ( polyQ ) expansion in exon1 ( XN1 ) of the huntingtin protein is linked to Huntington's disease. When the number of glutamines exceeds a threshold of approximately 36–40 repeats, the polypeptides misfold and form lethal cellular aggregates similar to those observed in the neurons of afflicted patients. Many experiments suggest that the length-dependent aggregation of a poly polypolypolypptide plays an important role in protein aggregation. Elucidating the mis-folding of monomeric X N1 can help determine the structural rearrangement and aggregation mechanism of polyPolyQ. In this study, we perform molecular dynamics simulations to study the flanking sequences surrounding the PolypolyQ region. We find that PolyQ peptides have a positive correlation between their probability to form a β-rich polyfolded state and their expansion length. Furthermore, by lengthening poly Q, polyproline regions are more likely to adopt a α-helix conformation rather than an α helix conformformation. Therefore, our study provides a structural insight into the folding and misfolding of X n1.
CRISPR ( Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats ) loci, together with cas genes, form the adaptive immune system, a primary defense strategy that eubacteria and archaea mobilize against foreign nucleic acids, including phages and conjugative plasmids. Short spacer sequences separated by the repeats are derived from foreign DNA and direct interference to future infections, as has recently been shown for marine microbiomes. The availability of hundreds of shotgun metagenomic datasets from the Human Microbiome Project ( HMP ) enables us to explore the distribution and diversity of known CRIS PRs in human-associated microbial communities and to discover new ones. We propose a targeted assembly strategy to reconstruct genome assemblies, which whole-metagenome assemblies fail to identify. For each known gene, we use its direct repeat consensus sequence to recruit reads from each dataset, and then assemble the recruited reads into the unique sequences that can then be extracted for analysis. Targeted assembly of these sequences resulted in a total of ∼8, 000 unique spacers: samples resampled from a same individual and oral site shared significantly fewer, while different individuals had almost no common spacer, indicating the impact of subtle niche differences on the evolution of the resistance to bacterial pathogens. This work indicates the importance of effective identification and characterization of genetic elements and the virus exposure of individuals.
Most organisms have an endogenous circadian clock that is synchronized to environmental signals such as light and temperature. Although circadian rhythms have been described in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans at the behavioral level, these rhythms appear to be relatively non-robust. Moreover, in contrast to other animal models, no circadian transcriptional rhythm has been identified. Here we use genome-wide expression profiling experiments to identify the expression of circadian oscillating transcripts. These transcripts exhibit rhythmic expression with temperature-compensated 24-h periods. In addition, their expression is sustained under constant conditions, suggesting that they are under circadian regulation. We show that mutations in a cyclic nucleotide-gated channel required for sensory transduction abolish both light- and cold-entrained gene expression, implying that environmental cues act cell nonautonomously to entrain circadian rhythm. Together, our findings provide new information about the evolution and function of this biological clock.
The Saccharomyces cerevisae RAD3 gene is the homolog of human XPD, an essential gene encoding a DNA helicase of the TFIIH complex involved in both nucleotide excision repair ( NER ) and transcription. Some mutant alleles have partial defects in DNA repair and a strong hyper-recombination phenotype. We have further characterized these events using a system in which the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination are recovered. Mapping of this event shows that three-quarters of these crossovers reflect DSBs formed at the same positions in the sister chromatids ( double sister-chromatid breaks, DSCBs ). In addition, there was a hotspot for deletions and duplications at IMA2 and HXT11 genes near the left end of chromosome XV.
During persistent infection, optimal expression of bacterial factors is required to match the ever-changing host environment. The gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori has a large set of simple sequence repeats ( SSR ), which constitute contingency loci. Through a slipped strand mispairing mechanism, the SSRs generate heterogeneous populations that facilitate adaptation. In this study, we present a model that explains, in molecular terms, how an intergenically located T-tract operates with a rheostat-like function, to fine-tie activity of the promoter that drives the binding of sialic acid binding adhesin, SabA. We show that the length of this tract is a highly variable feature in the bacterium. This mirrors the host-pathogen interplay, where different strains generate clones from which the best-fit phenotypes are selected in a respective host. Our results suggest that this generally applicable mechanism may provide an alternative mechanism for transcriptional regulation in bacteria that possesses a limited repertoire of classical trans-acting regulatory factors.
High-risk human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) must evade host innate immune surveillance to establish persistent infections and to amplify viral genomes upon differentiation. Members of the JAK-STAT family are important regulators of immune evasion. STAT-5 is another member of this pathway that modulates the inflammatory response and plays an important role in controlling cell cycle progression in response to cytokines and growth factors. Our studies show that HPV E7 activates STAT5 phosphorylation without altering total protein levels and that this is necessary for stable maintenance of viral episomes and genome amplification. In contrast, treatment of undifferentiated cells that stably maintain episome amplification has no effect on viral replication. Knockdown studies indicate that the ATM DNA damage response is mediated by the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ ( PPARγ ).
Salmonella enterica serovars Typhi can colonize and persist in the biliary tract of infected individuals, resulting in a state of asymptomatic chronic carriage. Chronic carriers may act as persistent reservoirs of infection within a community and may introduce infection to susceptible individuals and new communities. Little is known about the interaction between the host and pathogen during S. typhi carriage, and there is currently no reliable diagnostic assay to identify chronic human carriers. We applied an immunoscreening technique called in vivo-induced antigen technology ( IVIAT ), which identifies humorally immunogenic bacterial antigens that may be unique to chronic carriers, but not in healthy individuals from a typhoid endemic area. Using this technique, we identified a number of putative membrane proteins, lipoproteins, hemolysin-related proteins. YncE, an uncharacterized protein with an ATP-binding motif, gave prominent responses in our screen. IgA responses were also present. Our results suggest that the immune system of chronic individuals may express a proteomic profile distinct from that expressed in bacteria grown using standard laboratory conditions or during acute infection.
In order to study the role played by cellular RNA pools produced by homologous genomic loci in defining the transcriptional state of a silenced gene, we used classic Position Effect Variegation ( PEV ) assays in the model system D. melanogaster and tested the effect of non-functional alleles of white, unable to produce a coding transcript but with the potential of transcribing other RNA’s from the white locus, trans-reactivate the variegating wm4h line thus increasing eye pigmentation. Remarkably, this new epigenetic phenomenon is heritable, relies on the presence of heterologs and is affected by mutations in genes involved in post-transcriptional gene silencing.
Hematophagous mosquitos and ticks avoid host hemostatic system through expression of enzyme inhibitors targeting proteolytic reactions of the coagulation and complement cascades. While most inhibitors characterized to date were found in the salivary glands, relatively few others have been identified. Among those, Boophilin is a 2-Kunitz multifunctional inhibitor targeting thrombin, elastase, and kallikrein. Inhibition is accompanied by blockade of platelet aggregation and fibrin formation in vitro. Notably, we also identified a non-competitive inhibitor of FXIa, preventing FIX activation and promoting bleeding according to the mice tail transection method.
The mucosa of the intestinal tract represents a finely tuned system where tissue structure strongly influences, and is turn influenced by, its function as both an absorptive surface and a defensive barrier. Mucosal architecture and histology plays a key role in the diagnosis, characterization and pathophysiology of a host of gastrointestinal diseases. Inflammation is a significant control factor governing the structure-function relationship of enteric mucosal tissue. We have developed an agent-based computational model to simulate the cellular and molecular interactions that maintain and modify the crypt-villus architecture as generated by the behavior of gut epithelial cells as they undergo replication, migration and differentiation. SEGMEnT provides a platform for instantiating conceptual models ( hypotheses ) representing baseline, healthy systems, which can then be used to explore novel and innovative hypotheses.
Mosquito-borne diseases heavily impact human health in tropical and subtropical areas, where some of them co-circulates in several countries. Dengue virus ( DENV ) is one of the arboviruses of global health concern in the early 2000‘s, when a new epidemic strain emerged from an enzoonotic lineage. In 2014, the first autochthonous CHIKV cases appeared in Brazil, linked to both the Asian and the East Central South Africa ( ECSA ) genotypes, with the last spreading throughout the country within the span of one year. The endosymbiont Wolbachia wMelBr strain was released for 20 consecutive weeks after receiving >87% approval of householders of an isolated community of Tubiacanga, Rio de Janeiro. A high maternal transmission rate was observed. Doubling releases and deploying mosquitoes with large wing length and low laboratory mortality produced no detectable effects on invasion trend. By investigating the lab colony maintenance procedures backwardly, pyrethroid resistant mosquitoes decreased from 68% to 3. 5% after 17 generations. Therefore, we initially released susceptible mosquitoes in a local population highly resistant to pyrethroids which, associated with over use of insecticides by householder, ended jeopardizing the invasion. Despite the cost on fitness, a subsequent release on the same site was successful.
Poxviruses employ sophisticated, but incompletely understood, signaling pathways that engage cellular defense mechanisms and simultaneously ensure viral factors are modulated properly. For example, the vaccinia B1 protein kinase plays a vital role in inactivating the cellular antiviral factor BAF, and likely orchestrates other pathways as well. In this study, we utilized experimental evolution of a deletion virus to perform an unbiased search for suppressor mutations. After several passages of the ΔB1 virus we observed a robust increase in viral titer, suggesting a striking fitness enhancement to this virus. Further investigation of B12 attributes revealed that it primarily localizes to the nucleus, a characteristic only rarely found among poxviral proteins. Importantly, B14 phosphorylation is reduced under conditions in which the virus is present in infected cells with a defect in the viral protein. These data provide novel evidence that a paralogous Kinase-Pseudokinase pair can exhibit a unique epistatic relationship in a virus, perhaps serving to enhance the conservation of this protein and to orchestrate yet-to-be-discovered nuclear events during infection.
The folding and aggregation properties of soluble peptides and small proteins at hydrophobic/hydrophilic interfaces ( HHI ) play a crucial role in biomedically important processes. One example that has been extensively investigated over the last years are amyloid-fibril forming peptide which are responsible for many human disorders, among them severe neurodegenerative diseases. The amphiphilic character of these molecules is responsible both for their aggregation propensity as well as their strong interface activity. In this study, we use molecular dynamics simulations to analyze the conformational behavior of two synthetic protein systems, LKKLLKLLKKL ( LK ) and EAALAEALA ( EAL ), with built-in secondary amphipathic properties upon forming an alpha-helix. We use these model proteins to systematically study their aggregational preferences and the influence of macroscopic and molecular interfaces on their conformation preferences, and to characterize typical microscopic intermediates and pathways.
Human herpesvirus 6A and 6B ( HHV-6B ) are ubiquitous betaherpesviruses that infects humans within the first years of life and establishes latency in various cell types. Both viruses can integrate their genomes into telomeres of host chromosomes in latently infected cells. The molecular mechanism of viral integration remains elusive. In this study, we determined the role of the telomeric repeats ( TMR ) arrays in viral replication and integration. We established an in vitro integration system that allowed us to measure the integration efficiency and genome maintenance by fluorescence in situ hybridization ( FISH ) and qPCR, respectively. Using this system we could demonstrate that the HCMV major immediate promoter ( Trichostatin A ) is dispensable for replication, while the impTMR is the key component for virus integration, suggesting that integration is crucial for maintaining the virus genome.
In contrast to most enveloped viruses, poxviruses produce infectious particles that do not acquire their internal lipid membrane by budding through cellular compartments. Instead, they are generated from atypical crescent-shaped precursors whose architecture and composition remain contentious. Here we describe the 2. 6 Å crystal structure of vaccinia virus D13, a key structural component of the outer scaffold of viral crescents and immature particles. This protein assembles into trimers that are homologous to the double-barrel capsid proteins of adenovirus and lipid-containing icosahedral viruses. We show that, when tethered onto artificial membranes, the protein forms a honeycomb lattice and assembly products structurally similar to those of both viruses and the giant mimivirus. Overall, these findings establish that the first committed step of poaxvirus morphogenesis utilizes an ancestral lip-remodeling strategy common to all DNA viruses infecting all kingdoms of life.
The root system plays a fundamental role for plant growth and survival, not only by providing support, water and nutrients for the shoot, but also by participating in secondary functions, such as hormone biosynthesis or storage of photoassimilates. Root system architecture, that is the number and arrangement of different root types and their branching pattern, is highly plastic and determined by developmental and environmental factors that interact to optimize soil exploration. However, it remains unclear to which degree they are applicable to distant relatives. For example, in the dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana, auxin biosynthetic via indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) is essential for root development and requires redundant TRYPTOPHAN AMINOTRANSFERASE OF ARABIDOPSIS 1 and TAA1-RELATED ( TAR ) genes. Here we report the isolation and characterization of a BdTAR2-LIKE gene in Brachypodium distachyon. Unlike vt2, this gene displays only mild shoot phenotypes, which surprisingly appear to result from upwardly disturbed Auxin-ethylene crosstalk. Moreover, we observed dramatic root phenotypic changes in a downstream ethylene-signaling component homolog mutant. These findings suggest a delicate homeostasis of local auxins and ethane activity to control cell elongation.
The plasticity of biological traits is manifested on multiple time scales. Regulatory mechanisms govern the physiological adaptation of an individual to changing conditions, whereas evolution depends largely on changes in both expression and function. In species of the budding yeast, the rate at which genes diverge in expression correlates with the organization of their promoter nucleosomes. To examine if early evolutionary dynamics contributes to this difference in divergence, we artificially selected for high expression of GFP–fused proteins. Surprisingly, selection was equally successful for OPN and DPN genes, with ∼80% of genes in each group stably increasing in gene expression by a similar amount. Notably, two groups adapted by distinct mechanisms: DPD–selected strains duplicated large genomic regions, while OPD-selected genes favored trans mutations not involving duplications. When selection is removed, DDP–derived genes reverted rapidly to wild-type expression levels, consistent with their lower diversity between species. Our results suggest that promoter organization constrains the early evolution dynamics and in this way biases the path of long-term evolution.
Human T lymphotropic virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) is the causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma ( ATL ), a malignancy of CD4+ T cells that develops in 2–5% of infected individuals over a course of several decades. The oncogenic activity of Tax in cell culture and in transgenic mice is driven by NF-κB. Tax is thought to promote cell proliferation and transformation by activating the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome ( APC/C ) and the transcriptional co-activators CBP/p300, p300-CBP-associated factor ( PCAF ). Here we demonstrate that the p21-/27-mediated cellular senescence constitutes a checkpoint against IKK/NF-KB hyper-activation and is attenuated by mutations in Tax that reduce the levels of p27 protein and p28 mRNA respectively. We further show that down-regulation of the anti-sense protein, HBZ, delay or prevent the onset of cell cycle abnormalities induced by Tax. Our results suggest that a balance between Tax-induced viral replication and increased Tax expression determines the outcome of infection. Robust growth of cells and elevated Tax activity drive the hyperactivation of both classical and alternative cellular pathways, thus allowing cells to proliferate, persist, and evolve.
The frontal lobes subserve decision-making and executive control—that is, the selection and coordination of goal-directed behaviors. Current models of frontal executive function, however, do not explain how the frontal function continuously arbitrates between ( 1 ) adjusting and staying with the current actor set, ( 2 ) switching to other learned tasks, and ( 3 ) creating new task sets for driving action. Here, we propose a computational formulation of this model that clarifies this issue. The model predicts human decisions and their variations across individuals in naturalistic situations.
A central aim of medical systems biology is to study molecular mechanisms that drive disease progression and to translate this knowledge into therapies to effectively treat diseases. A challenging task is the investigation of long-term effects of a ( pharmacological ) treatment, to establish its applicability and identify potential side effects. We present a new modeling approach, called Analysis of Dynamic Adaptations in Parameter Trajectories ( ADAPT ), that uses time-dependent evolution of model parameters to describe the dynamics of molecular adaptations induced by a treatment intervention. This provides insight in the affected underlying biological systems and identifies the molecular events that should be studied in more detail to unravel the mechanistic basis of treatment outcome.
The coordination of our multi-segmented bodies and limbs is an unsolved computational challenge that is dealt with seamlessly by the neuronal circuitries of the brain. In this paper, we synthesize a number of findings into a new hypothesis for how the spinocerebellar systems and the cerebellum can interact to support coordination. A central idea is that recombination of sensory and motor inputs can be used to approximate a wide array of functions including the spatial and temporal dependencies between limb segments. Granule cells, potentially with the aid of differentiated thresholding from Golgi cell, enhance the utility of these projections by allowing the Purkinje cell to establish piecewise-linear approximations of non- linear functions. Our hypothesis provides a novel view on the function of spinal circuitry and is crucially supported by neuronal circuitry.
Mosquitoes play an important role in disease transmission in plants, animals and humans. MicroRNAs ( non-coding RNA ) have been demonstrated to exert determinative influence on various cellular processes. It is becoming abundantly clear that host/vector/pathogen encoded microRNAAs impact eventual pathogenesis. We conducted this study to evaluate the role of host miRNA upon CHIKV ( Chikungunya Virus ) infection in Anopheles and Ae. albopictus Singh's cell line in their respective hosts. In our study, we identified 88 and 79 known miRNas in uninfected and CHikV infected cells respectively. Comparison of the two libraries revealed differential expression of 77 common mi RNAs between them. Our study provides an insight about cellular modification by miRAs during CHKV infection and the results provide leads for identifying potential candidates for vector based antiviral strategies.
Cystic echinococcosis ( CE ) is a globally distributed parasitic infection of humans and livestock. The disease is of significant medical and economic importance in many developing countries, including Iran. However, the socioeconomic impact of the disease in most endemic countries is not fully understood. This study was to determine the monetary burden of CE in Iran using existing country-level data relating to human and animal disease. Epidemiological data were obtained from regional hospitals, scientific literature, and official government reports. Economic losses due to CE were estimated from official national and international datasets. Monte Carlo simulation methods were used to represent uncertainty in input parameters. Mean number of surgical CE cases per year for 2000–2009 was estimated at 1, 295, 232 ( 95% CI US$6. 1–222. 7 million ) and the annual cost associated with human disease was found to be approximately $1, 539. CE has a considerable economic impact on Iran, with the cost of human CE approximated at 0. 03% of its gross domestic product. Establishment of a CE surveillance system and implementation of control program are necessary to reduce the economic burden on the country. Cost-benefit analysis of different control programs is recommended.
The mouse polyomavirus ( MPyV ) lytically infects mouse cells, transforms rat cells in culture, and is highly oncogenic in rodents. We have used deep sequencing to study the transcriptome of mouse NIH3T6 cells at various times after infection and analyzed both viral and cellular transcriptomes. Alignment of sequencing reads to the viral genome illustrated the transcriptional profile of the early-to-late switch with both early and late-strand RNAs being transcribed at all time points. A number of novel insights into viral gene expression emerged from these studies, including the demonstration of widespread RNA editing of viral transcripts at late times in infection. The long noncoding RNA MALAT1 was shown to be significantly upregulated and 857 were downregulated. Gene ontology analysis indicated transcripts involved in translation, metabolism, RNA processing, DNA methylation, protein turnover, cytoskeleton, zinc finger binding, SH3 domain and GTPase activation were also altered, while several other abundant RNA molecules were strongly upregulated.
The Boston Marathon is one of the world’s largest marathons, and it is a major event in the United States that attracts hundreds of thousands of runners each year. Of those who attempt to race over the marathon distance of 26 miles and 385 yards ( 42. 195 kilometers ), more than two-fifths experience severe and performance-limiting depletion of physiologic carbohydrate reserves, a phenomenon known as ‘hitting the wall. ’ Analyses of endurance physiology have often either used coarse approximations to suggest that human glycogen reserves are insufficient to fuel a marathon, or implied that maximal carbohydrate loading is required in order to complete a long-distance race. The present computational study demonstrates that the energetic constraints on endurance runners are more subtle than previously thought. In so doing it also provides a basis for guidelines ensuring the safety and optimizing the performance, both by setting personally appropriate paces and by prescribing midrace fueling requirements.
Toxoplasma gondii is a ubiquitous obligate intracellular protozoan parasite that can invade and replicate in almost all cells of a wide range of warm-blooded animals. In humans it is the 2nd most important foodborne pathogen in terms of annual cost of illness and quality adjusted life year loss. Normally a lifelong, largely asymptomatic, infection is established but in immunocompromised individuals and in congenital infections, it can lead to severe disease and even death. Nevertheless, not all seropositive immunosuppressed patients have reactivating toxoplasmosis. The molecular basis for these differences in pathogenesis, especially in strains other than the clonal lineages, remains largely unexplored. Macrophages play an essential role in the early immune response and are also the cell type preferentially infected in vivo. To determine if non-canonical strains have unique interactions with the host cell, we infected murine macrophage with 29 different strains, representing global diversity, and used RNA-sequencing to determine host and parasite transcriptomes. We identified large differences between strains in expression level of known parasite effectors and large chromosomal structural variation in some strains. Furthermore we identified novel strain-specifically regulated host pathways, including the regulation of the type I interferon response. IFNβ production by infected cells was associated with parasite killing and dependent on endosomal Toll-like receptors and the cytoplasmic receptor retinoic acid-inducible gene 1 in fibroblasts.
Recombination in enteroviruses provides an evolutionary mechanism for acquiring extensive regions of novel sequence, is suggested to have played a role in genotype diversity and is known to be key to the emergence of new neuropathogenic variants of poliovirus. Despite the importance of this evolutionary process, the recombination process remains relatively poorly understood. We investigated the ability to generate recombinants in the absence of either replication-competent helper viruses or low frequency revertants of parental genomes bearing genetic lesions such as resistance to guanidine hydrochloride. Serial passage of viruses exhibiting such imprecise junctions yielded progeny with increased fitness which had lost the duplicated sequences. Mutations or inhibitors that changed polymerase fidelity or the coalescence of replication complexes markedly altered the yield of recombinsants indicating both that the process is replicative and that it may be possible to enhance or reduce viral evolution if required. This process has implications for our wider understanding of ‘evolution by duplication’ in positive-strand RNA viruses.
Obesity, a disease characterized by excess body fat, is a major risk factor for many human diseases, including type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and hepatic steatosis. In mammals, fat is stored primarily in adipose tissue ( AT ) and three distinct types of ATs have been characterized: white AT ( WAT ), brown AT and beige AT. The low catecholamine clearance capacity of SLC6A2 may limit the cleaning efficiency. Here, we report that mouse organic cation transporter 3 ( Oct3; Slc22a3 ) displays the greatest uptake rate of NE as a selective non-neural route of Norepinephrine clearance in white adipocytes, which differs from other known routes such as adjacent neurons or macrophages. We further show that adipocyte express high levels of the NE degradation enzymes Maoa, Maob, Comt, providing the molecular basis on NE clearance by adiponocytes together with its reuptake transporter OCT3. Under NE administration, ablation of oct3 induces higher body temperature, thermogenesis and lipolysis compared with littermate controls. Glycolytic genes are reprogrammed to significantly higher levels to compensate for the loss of ATP production, indicating the fundamental role of glucose metabolism during beiging. This response involves enhanced β-adrenergic receptor ( β -AR ) /protein kinase A ( PKA )/cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) -responsive element binding protein ( Creb ) pathway activation. Our results provide a novel route for NE recycling of catecolamines and suggest a potential therapeutic application by activating energy expenditure pathways.
The heterochromatin-enriched HP1 proteins play a critical role in regulation of transcription. These proteins contain two related domains known as chromo- and the chromoshadow-domain. In vivo and in vitro experiments have shown that the affinity of these proteins to native histone H3 tails methylated on lysine 9 ( K9 ), an epigenetic mark frequently associated with transcriptional activity, facilitates their binding to nucleosomes. This observation prompted us to investigate whether the proteins could establish alternative interactions with the histones. We find that this region is also contacted by the catalytic subunits of the human SWI/SNF complex. Interestingly, we show that these residues are also involved in chromatin remodeling. Finally, our data suggest that, at least in eukaryotes, the opening of DNA replication facilitates the recruitment of chromosomal structures to bind DNA.
RNA molecules will tend to adopt a folded conformation through the pairing of bases on a single strand; the resulting so-called secondary structure is critical to the function of many types of RNA. Yet, some RNA molecules such as microRNAs retain their specific structures during biogenesis, which involves extraction of the substructure from a larger structural context, while other functional RNAs may be composed of a fusion of independent substructures. We define the property of self containment as the tendency for an RNA sequence to robustly adopt the same optimal tertiary structure regardless of whether it exists in isolation or is a substring of longer sequence of arbitrary nucleotide content. In this work, we measured degree of Self containment using a scoring method we call the self-containment index and found that miRNA stem loops exhibit high self control, consistent with the requirement for structural invariance imposed by the microRNA biogenic pathway. Further analysis revealed a trend toward higher self retention among clustered and conserved RNA classes. Our results suggest that the ability to maintain structural function is an intimate relationship between mutational robustness and domain modularity with folding kinetics, thermodynamic stability, as well as other biogenerative processes.
Host cells use an intricate signaling system to respond to invasions by pathogenic microorganisms. Although several signaling components of disease resistance against necrotrophic fungal pathogens have been identified, our understanding for how molecular components and host processes contribute to plant disease susceptibility is rather sparse. Here, we identified four transcription factors ( TFs ) from Arabidopsis that limit pathogen spread. We identified 77 up-regulated genes that encode peptides with a secretion signal, which we named PROVIR ( for provirulence ) factors. Forward and reverse genetic analyses revealed that many of the genes identified in our work represent novel genetic determinants for the host susceptibility to bacterial pathogens.
The uterine endometrium is receptive to the implanting embryo only during a discrete period in the female reproductive cycle, known as the “window of receptivity” ( WOR ). Incomplete or defective implantation is associated with cases of recurrent pregnancy loss or multiple rounds of unsuccessful in vitro fertilization cycles. Here, we demonstrate that the transcription factor Forkhead Box O1 ( FOXO1 ) is a critical regulator of the uterus during the WOR. Uterine ablation of Foxo1 using the progesterone receptor Cre ( PgrCre ) mouse model resulted in infertility due to altered epithelial cell polarity and apoptosis, preventing the embryo from penetrating the luminal epithelium. We then demonstrated that expression and loss of PGR during this receptive period are interrelated and a can serve as a marker for WOR in mice and humans.
Dengue is a neglected tropical disease caused by female Aedes mosquitoes. The severe forms of the disease are potentially fatal. Despite no effective control program being introduced and no changes in surveillance until 2010 when serological confirmation was mandated for case reporting, nationally reported cases have declined since 2002. This might be partially attributable to increased prevalence of immunity and reduction in mosquito breeding sites resulting from public awareness. However, there is considerable under-reporting inherent in the passive hospital-based surveillance system. Bayesian geostatistical modelling approaches are powerful for disease mapping, explicitly accounting for spatial correlation in disease data while incorporating uncertainty in data and model parameters. We developed a negative binomial generalised linear mixed effect model ( ZINB ) to investigate the spatial variation in monthly reported case numbers in Bangladesh in relation to climatic and demographic factors. Our model estimated that 92% of annual dengues occurred between August and September. Cases were identified across the country with 94% in capital Dhaka. Less than half of cases reported in high-incidence districts, but dropped towards the end of high transmission season. These results can facilitate the efficient distribution of vector control interventions to areas of highest need at the appropriate time.
When introduced into a novel environment, mammals establish in it a preferred place marked by the highest number of visits and highest cumulative time spent in that place. The existence of highly organized behavior across the whole arena in reference to this so-called “home base” highlights important features of its organization. It might therefore be fruitful to search for other types of marked places in mouse exploratory behavior and examine their influence on overall behavior. Examination of path curvatures of mice exploring a large open field arena revealed the presence of a tortuous winding path full of twists, turns and bends that looked like a knot. We term these places knots, and the behavior performed in them—knot-scribbling. There is typically no more than one knot per session; it has distinct boundaries and it is maintained both within and across sessions. Knots are mostly situated in the place of introduction into the arena, here away from walls. In an environment devoid of proximal cues mice mark a locale associated with arousal by twisting and turning it. This creates a self-generated, often centrally located landmark. Our results suggest that knots are natural ethological building blocks of mouse exploration.
Invasive infections by fungal pathogens cause more deaths than malaria worldwide. We found the ergoline compound NGx04 in an antifungal screen, with selectivity over mammalian cells. High-resolution chemogenomics identified the lipid transfer protein Sec14p as the target of the screening hit and compound-resistant mutations define the substrate binding pocket of this protein. In summary, we present genetic evidence supporting the identification of a novel antiviral starting point.
The treatment and control of schistosomiasis, an often neglected tropical disease that exacerbates poverty, depends on a single drug, praziquantel. However, despite the paucity of a concerted effort to develop novel drug-resistant parasites, a number of compounds have been identified by academia, such as the synthetic trioxolanes, the cysteine protease inhibitor K11777, alkylaminoalkanethiosulfuric acids, and mefloquine. Here, we report that the antimalarial drug of the genus S. mansoni, which is widely and effectively used for the treatment of malaria, possesses promising antischistomosomal properties in mice. A single oral dose of 400 mg/kg ( 200 or 400 g ) of either a sub-patent or patent infection resulted in high or complete total and female worm burden reductions ( 72. 3%–100% ). Importantly, high worm load reductions were also observed for young developing stages of both parasites in the mouse. Further in vitro and in vivo studies will be launched to elucidate the possible mechanism of action and to study the effect of this drug on the parasite.
Podoconiosis is a non-filarial elephantiasis, which causes massive swelling of the lower legs. It was identified as a neglected tropical disease by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) in 2011. As part of a global mapping study, this study was conducted in Cameroon to map the distribution and burden of this disease. We used a multi‐stage sampling design with stratification of country by environmental risk of podoconia. All individuals of 15-years old or older in the village were surveyed house-to-house and screened for lymphedema. Individuals with lymphoedema were tested for circulating Wuchereria bancrofti antigen and specific IgG4 using the Alere Filariasis Test Strips ( FTS ) test and the Standard Diagnostics ( SD ) BIOLINE lymphatic filariasis Igg4 test ( Wb123 ) respectively, in addition to thick blood films. A clinical algorithm was used to reliably diagnose the disease, excluding filarial-associated lysosomes. In total, 83 individuals were identified. Of the 83 cases, two were found to be positive for Mansonella perstans DNA, while the other harbored Loa loa microfluidic acid. At least one case was found in every region of Cameroon except the two surveyed villages in Adamawa. The overall prevalence was 0. 5% ( 95% [confidence interval] CI; 0. 4–0. 7 ).
Stem cells have an innate ability to occupy their stem cell niche, which in turn, is optimized to house stem cells. However, the mechanisms involved are poorly understood. In this study, we report that Notch signaling is increased with age in Drosophila female germline cells ( GSCs ), and this results in their removal from the niche. This is due to the increased adhesiveness of these cells, thereby out-competing their neighbors with higher levels of notch. Our findings reveal a novel role of NotCH signaling in controlling niche occupancy in response to aging and are also of relevance to metastatic cancer.
The human herpesviruses ( HHVs ) are large, enveloped viruses with double-stranded DNA genomes. Based on sequence homology and cellular tropisms, they are divided into three families, alpha, beta, and gamma. These viruses complete productive ( lytic ) replication cycles in epithelial cells and establish life-long latency in sensory neurons. They cause recurrent and sometimes painful skin lesions and, in rare cases, meningitis. A functional complementation assay has further shown that the UL97 protein of human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) has authentic Cdk-like activity. However, the evolutionary conservation of these proteins has not been fully maintained at the functional level. Our study identifies a subset of the CHPKs as virally-encoded kinases that are likely to serve both overlapping and non-overlapping functions during viral infections.
Burkholderia pseudomallei, a Tier 1 Select Agent and the cause of melioidosis, is a Gram-negative bacillus present in the environment in many tropical countries. Defining the global pattern of B. pseudoma distribution underpins efforts to prevent infection, and is dependent upon robust environmental sampling methodology. Our objective was to review the literature on the detection and conduct of environmental Burkholder Pseudo-Proteus and propose international consensus guidelines for soil sampling. We found that global coverage was patchy. The sampling strategies and bacterial identification methods used were highly variable and not all were robust.
Membrane fusion is a critical step for infectious entry of enveloped viruses into cells. A viral “fusion protein” facilitates this process, generally in response to molecular cues specific for the cellular compartment in which viral penetration occurs. For example, dengue and other flaviviruses penetrate from endosomes, following uptake by clathrin-mediated endocytosis. The fusion protein, known as E, is the principal external protein of the virion, and it is made as part of a polyprotein, prM ( precursor of M ). When the pH drops below about 6. 2, E undergoes a large-scale conformational rearrangement, followed by a reassociation into extended trimers. In vitro assays demonstrate that these peptides specifically block viral fusion by binding the stem-less E trimer, which blocks infectivity. We conclude that the same stem peptide can bind virions before cell attachment and, presumably, by accompanying the virus particles into the membrane.
Cholera is still a global health concern. Recent outbreaks, including Haiti and Yemen, have highlighted the need to control the spread of antimicrobial resistance ( AMR ), which can rapidly induce high death tolls by overwhelming the capacity of health facilities, especially in remote areas or areas of civil unrest. Molecular epidemiology has become critical to determine the areas at highest risk for infections, to improve intervention measures such as vaccination campaigns but also to inform the development of new vaccines targeting the appropriate species and genotypes. In this study, Whole genome sequencing ( WGS ) recovered close to a complete sequence of the V. cholerae O1 genome with satisfactory genome coverage from stool specimens enriched in alkaline peptone water ( APW ) and culture isolates, both spotted on filter paper. The minimum concentration of DNA sufficient to produce quality genomic information was 0. 02 ng/μL. These results confirmed the presence or absence of genes of epidemiological interest and identified a variety of diarrheal pathogens, highlighting the potential for this technique to explore the gut microbiome, potentially identifying co-infections that may impact the severity of disease.
Epithelial cells have distinct apico–basal membrane domains, each of which contains a unique complement of lipids and proteins to regionalize cellular functions. Intracellular junctions separate the apical from basolateral domains and mediate cell–cell adhesion and selective permeability within the monolayer. Although the mechanisms that specify epithelial polarity have been a topic of great interest in recent years, there are still many open questions about how this cell architecture is established and maintained. Here we show that the cytoplasmic Dynein motor is required for the proper targeting of specific sdt mRNA isoforms. We have mapped the mRNA localization signal to an alternatively spliced coding exon. Interestingly, the presence or absence of this splicing corresponds to a developmental switch in the expression of apically localized transcripts during early stages of cell development, while unlocalized transcripts predominate in mature epithelia. This work represents the first demonstration that DyNEin is necessary for epitothelicity and suggests a new class of gene products, mRNAs, may have a functional role in regulation of protein polarization.
Leishmania is an unicellular digenetic parasite causative of several devastating zoonotic diseases in poor and developing countries. It can survive in diverse environments from the sand fly vector to the mammalian host ( amastigotes ) where temperature, pH and other conditions are extremely different. In humans, once the disease is acquired several clinical forms can be manifested. The disease manifests as organ swelling ( specifically targeting liver, spleen and bone marrow ) and may be deadly if left untreated.
Visceral leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania donovani is a major health problem in Ethiopia. Parasites in disparate regions are transmitted by different vectors, and cluster in distinctive genotypes. Recently isolated strains from VL and HIV-VL co-infected patients in north and south Ethiopia were characterized as part of a longitudinal study. Sixty-three strains were examined by polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) targeting three regions: internal transcribed spacer 1 ( ITS1 ), cysteine protease B ( cpb ) and HASPB ( k26 ). The PCR amplicon size varied depending on the patient's geographic origin. Most strains isolated from northwestern Ethiopia ( 36/40 ) produced a 290 bp product with a minority ( 4/10 ) giving larger PCR products. Sudanese strains produced amplicons identical to those found in northwestern Ethiopian; while Kenyan strains gave larger products ( 500 and 650 bps ) for three strains. High-resolution melt ( HRM ) analysis distinguished the different PCR proteins. Sequence analysis showed that the K26 repeat region in L. donovaani, comprised of polymorphic 13 and 14 amino acid motifs, is common in the parasite. This should be taken into account when designing diagnostic assays and vaccines based on this antigen.
Recombinant HIV-1 genomes contribute significantly to the diversity of variants within the HIV/AIDS pandemic. It is assumed that some of these mosaic genomes may have novel properties that have led to their prevalence, particularly in the case of the circulating recombinant forms ( CRFs ). To test this hypothesis, we generate a probabilistic model for the copy-choice recombination process. We find that the observed frequencies of inter-subtype recombinants are predicted accurately by our model. This observation strongly indicates that in these regions a local sequence identity is sufficient to explain breakpoint locations. Regions that deviate from this expected distribution we infer to include the breakpoints that are of greater importance as a consequence of this region, or at least part of it, having a tendency to be recombined as an entire unit.
Computational modeling plays an important role in modern neuroscience research. Much previous research has relied on statistical methods, separately, to address two problems that are actually interdependent. First, given a particular computational model, Bayesian hierarchical techniques have been used to estimate individual variation in parameters over a population of subjects, leveraging their population-level distributions. Second, candidate models are themselves compared, and individual variations in the expressed model estimated, according to the fits of the models to each subject. The interdependence between these problems arises because the relevant population for estimating parameters of a model depends on which other subjects express the model. In this work, we introduce a hierarchical and model inference ( HBI ) framework for concurrent model comparison, parameter estimation and inference at the population level, combining previous approaches. We show that this framework has important advantages for both parameter comparison theoretically and experimentally. Model comparison is robust against outliers and is not biased towards overly simplistic models.
The mammalian brainstem plays a crucial role in the regulation of many vital functions through a complex system of reflex arcs and relays information to higher brain centers through interconnected neuronal circuits. During development, the hindbrain becomes subdivided along the antero-posterior ( A-P ) axis into serially repeated, spatially segregated modules of progenitor cells. The rhombomeres and their associated Hox genes are responsible for the assembly of distinct functionally segregated sub-circuits. In this study, we show that r4 contributes to functionally linked sensory and motor components, including the ventral nucleus of lateral lemniscus, posterior dorsal cochlear nuclei ( VCN ), motor olivocochlear neurons. Moreover, in mutant mice the transmission of low-level auditory stimuli is lost, resulting in hearing impairments. On the other hand, hoxa2 regulates the Rig1 axon guidance receptor and controls contralateral projections from the medial nucleus to the trapezoid body, a circuit involved in sound localization. Together, these studies provide new insights into the establishment and maintenance of proper auditory circuitry during development.
The marine bacterium Saccharophagus degradans ( Sde 2-40 ) is emerging as a vanguard of a recently discovered group of marine and estuarine bacteria that recycles complex polysaccharides. We report its complete genome sequence, analysis of which identifies an unusually large number of enzymes that degrade >10 complexes. Not only is this an extraordinary range of catabolic capability, many of the enzymes exhibit unusual architecture including novel combinations of catalytic and substrate-binding modules. These features are adaptations that facilitate depolymerization in the marine environment.
Japanese Encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is a zoonotic flavivirus that represents the most significant etiology of childhood viral neurological infections throughout the Asia. In this study, we used Culex ( Cx. ) mosquitoes from China as an in vivo mosquito model to explore if mosquitoes played a potential role in genotype shift. We found that C. pipiens mosquitoes were competent vector for both GI and GIII Jev infection, with similar infection rates, growth kinetics, dissemination rate and transmission rate, showing that both genotypes are similar. Our experiment data demonstrated that GI-infected mosquito salivary glands ( 16. 2% ) and 36. 3% were positive for GI virus, whereas G III virus was undetectable in G. infected mosquitoes at 14 dpi, indicating a similar infectivity between the two strains.
Dengue infection has been identified as the fastest spreading mosquito-borne viral disease, which affects people living in the tropical and subtropical countries. Malaysia had large outbreaks in recent years. This review aims to study the epidemiology, clinical characteristics and cause of deaths on fatal cases nationwide for 2013 and 2014.
The quality and reproductive potential of a chosen mate is one of the most consequential decisions affecting an animal’s fitness. Mate choice is based on select external traits that determine attractiveness, although in some cases individuals present false signals to secure more or higher quality mates. We have previously shown that global manipulation of insulin signaling, a nutrient-sensing pathway governing investment in survival versus reproduction, affects female sexual attractiveness in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. Here we demonstrate that these effects on attractiveness derive from insulin signals in fat body and ovarian follicle cells, whose signals are integrated by pheromone-producing cells called oenocytes. Functional ovaries were required for global manipulations, and we found that the cues themselves, cuticular hydrocarbons, responded distinctly to insulin pathway activity from these two tissues. Thus, here we describe a system in which female attractiveness results from an apparent connection between attractiveness cues and an organismal state of high fecundity.
The Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) epidemic in West Africa in 2013–2015 spread heterogeneously across the three hardest-hit countries Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, and the estimation of national transmission of the disease provides little information about local dynamics. In this study, we applied a statistical modelling approach to estimate the basic reproduction number ( R0 ) for each affected district and each country using weekly incident case numbers. We estimated the epidemic growth rates during the early exponential phase of an outbreak using exponential regression of case counts on the first eight weeks since onset. To take into account the heterogeneity between and within countries we fitted a mixed effects model and calculated the distribution of epidemic waves in each subnational unit ( here called 'district' ) of Guinea and Liberia, from 0. 53 ( Maryland ) to 3. 37 ( Margibi ) and from 1. 14 ( Koinadugu ) in Liberia to 2. 73 ( Western Rural ). Socio-demographic variables related to urbanisation such as high population density and high wealth index were found to be positively associated with the effects of fast urban growth.
What factors determine a protein's rate of evolution are actively debated. Especially unclear is the relative role of intrinsic factors of present-day proteins versus historical factors such as protein age. Here we use a large set of one-to-one orthologs between human and mouse proteins, with mapped PDB structures. We report that previously observed structural correlations also hold within each age group – including relationships between solvent accessibility, designabililty, and evolutionary rates. However, age also plays a crucial role: age modulates the relationship between structural properties and rate. Additionally, younger proteins tend to evolve faster than older proteins. Finally, we introduce a knowledge-based potential function to study the stability of proteins through large-scale computation. Our results underscore that several determinants, both intrinsic and historical, can interact to determine rates of protein evolution.
The developmental plasticity of early embryos and embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) requires the repression of cell-type specific genes. Polycomb repressive complex 2 ( PRC2 ) trimethylates lysine 27 of histone H3 to regulate gene expression during diverse biological transitions in development, differentiation, and cancer. In this study, we show that polycomb-like 3 ( Pcl3 ) is a component of the core components of PR2 that promotes ESC self-renewal. Using mass spectrometry and chromatin immunoprecipitation and sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) we demonstrate that the Tudor domain, a domain implicated in recognizing methylated histones, is essential for function. Mutation of conserved residues within this domain compromises the formation of H2K27me3, indicating that PCL3 is an important regulator of this complex protein. Furthermore, our results reveal a number of novel binding motifs that are enriched at CpG islands, suggesting that this is important for the transcriptional regulation of gene repression.
Animals modify their chemosensory behavior depending on their feeding-state, which allows them, for instance, to optimize their food-search strategy. This form of plasticity in chemoreceptor gene expression is observed across phyla, but the mechanisms essential for these expression changes remain poorly characterized. Here, we show that the expression levels of a feeding state-dependent gene, srh-234, in the sensory neuron of Caenorhabditis elegans is regulated via the MEF-2 transcription factor. We identify a binding site that is necessary and sufficient for the starvation-induced down regulation of expression, while an E-box site known to bind bHLH transcription factors is required to drive expression in ADL neurons. These results combined suggest that a combination of cell-autonomous and non-cell-automatic transcriptional mechanisms may allow animals to fine-tune their response to changes in their internal nutritional state and external environment such as food availability.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a destructive skin condition caused by infection with the environmental bacterium, Mycobacterium Ulcerans. The mode of transmission of M. ulcers is not completely understood, but several studies have explored the role of biting insects. In this study, we tested for an association between the detection and the risk of BU disease in mosquitoes in an endemic area of southeastern Australia. Adult mosquitoes were trapped in seven towns on the Bellarine Peninsula in Victoria, Australia, from December 2004 to December 2009 and screened by real-time PCR. We found a strong dose-response relationship between mosquito-borne disease and human disease ( r, 0. 99; 95% CI, 1. 92–5. 08; p<0. 001 ). Our results strengthen the hypothesis that mosquitoes are involved in the transmission and dissemination of the pathogen. This has implications for the development of intervention strategies to control and prevent BU.
Myelin is an essential component of the nervous tissue of higher vertebrates. It is produced by oligodendrocytes, while in the peripheral nervous system ( PNS ), this function is achieved by Schwann cells. Myelination is completed within a relatively short period of time during mammalian development and requires a high rate of production and transport of different kinds of molecules, mostly proteins and lipids. In adult life, the maintenance of functional myelin sheaths requires careful balance of de novo synthesis and turnover. Here, we report the molecular characterization of this mutation and discuss the possible pathomechanisms underlying demyelinating. We found that a G-to-A transition, 177 bp downstream of exon 3 of Mrs2 ( MRS2 magnesium homeostasis factor ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) ) gene, generated a novel splice acceptor site, which resulted in functional inactivation of a mutant allele. Our findings led to the conclusion that dmy/dmy rats suffer from a mitochondrial disease with a markedly elevated lactic acid concentration in cerebrospinal fluid, a 60% reduction in ATP, and increased mitochondrial membrane potential and cell death, depending on the duration of knock-down treatment.
Microarray gene expression signatures hold great promise to improve diagnosis and prognosis of disease. However, current documentation standards of such signatures do not allow for an unambiguous application to study-external patients. This hinders independent evaluation, effectively delaying the use of signatures in clinical practice. To address the signature documentation problem, we analyzed eight publicly available clinical microarray studies. We show that even the exact quantitative specification of a classification rule alone does not define a signature unambiguously. Using the proposed documentation by value strategy, which documents quantitative preprocessing information, the median discrepancy was reduced to 1%. Our approach reduces ambiguity of diagnoses to a minimum.
Bacterial amyloid fibrils secreted by Enterobacteriaceae mediate host cell adhesion and contribute to biofilm formation, thereby promoting bacterial resistance to environmental stressors. Here, we present crystal structures of the major curli subunit, CsgA, revealing steric zipper-like structures that are structurally and biophysically similar to those found in human pathological Amyloids. D-enantiomeric peptides, originally developed to interfere with Alzheimer’s disease-associated neurofilms, inhibited the Fibrillar spine segments derived from S. aureus. Moreover, as previously shown, the structural resemblance and potential for cross-species interactions between curl-forming segments were found. The presented findings provide structural insights into the structure and function of functional crosstalked segments of Curli, and suggest a novel strategy for disrupting the formation of self-propagating prionlike species originating from a microbial source that could influence neurodegenerative diseases.
Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is a vector-borne disease that is endemic in most of Asia, with high case fatality rates and often significant neurologic sequelae among survivors. To support consideration of JE vaccine for introduction into the national schedule in the Philippines, we conducted a systematic literature review and summarized data from 2011 to 2014 in four databases and one library. We identified 29 published reports and presentations, 18 reports of clinical cases, and 8 animal studies ( including two with both clinical case and animal data ). The 18 clinical studies reported 257 cases of laboratory-confirmed JJE from 1972 to 2013. This comprehensive review demonstrates the endemicity and extensive geographic range of the disease and supports the use of vaccine in its routine immunization programme.
The evolutionary origins of genetic robustness are still under debate: it may arise as a consequence of requirements imposed by varying environmental conditions, or directly due to an adaptive selection in favor of genes that allow a species to endure genetic perturbations. Stratifying the individual effects of each origin requires one to study the pertaining evolutionary forces across many species under diverse conditions. Here, we conduct the first large-scale computational study charting the level of metabolic networks of hundreds of bacterial species across multiple simulated growth environments. We provide evidence that variations among species in their metabolic network structure reflect ecological adaptations. The network expansion method is responsible for at least 20% of the non-essential reactions and its extent is associated with the species' lifestyle ( specialized/generalist ) ; the second, environmental-independent, is more associated ( correlation =∼0. 6 ) with its intrinsic metabolic capacities. Our results identify reactions that are uniquely susceptible to human pathogens, potentially serving as novel drug-targets.
Schistosoma infection is associated with immune modulation that can influence responses to many viral or bacterial pathogens. Vaccine responses may be impaired in S. mansoni-infected individuals. In Entebbe, among infants immunised against measles at age nine months, only 75% had “protective” antibody levels. Here we report findings of a study on the association between immunogenicity to catch-up measles immunisation among pre-school children and the effect of praziquantel treatment on measles vaccine response–the first trial of this kind.
The evolution of bacterial populations has recently become considerably better understood due to large-scale sequencing of population samples. It has become clear that DNA sequences from a multitude of genes, as well as a broad sample coverage of a target population, are needed to obtain a relatively unbiased view of its genetic structure and the patterns of ancestry connected to the strains. However, the traditional statistical methods for evolutionary inference, such as phylogenetic analysis are associated with several difficulties under such an extensive sampling scenario, in particular when a considerable amount of recombination is anticipated to have taken place. Here we introduce here several statistical tools for the detection and representation of the genetic variation between populations. We introduce a model-based description of their molecular variability and affinity towards each other. Extensive real data from the genus Neisseria are utilized to demonstrate the potential of an approach where these population genetic tools are combined with an evolutionary analysis. Our analyses are freely available in BAPS 5. 2 software, which can be downloaded from http://web. abo. fi/fak/mnf/mate/jc/software. html.
Cortical rhythms have been thought to play crucial roles in our cognitive abilities. Rhythmic activity in the beta frequency band, around 20 Hz, has been reported in recent studies that focused on neural correlates of attention, indicating that top-down beta rhythms, generated in higher cognitive areas and delivered to earlier sensory areas, can support attentional gain modulation. To elucidate functional roles of alpha rhythms and underlying mechanisms, we built a computational model of sensory cortical areas. Our simulation results show that cortical slow-inhibitory ( SI ) interneurons can activate ascending synaptic projections from L5 to L4 and L2/3, responsible for biased competition in superficial layers. In the simulation, low-threshold beta and gamma rhythms can be selectively projected to a population of cells, which can assist the selected population to be a winner in a competition with other populations via lateral inhibition.
Stochastic transmission dynamic models are especially useful for studying the early emergence of novel pathogens given the importance of chance events when the number of infectious individuals is small. However, methods for parameter estimation and prediction for these types of stochastic models remain limited. In this manuscript, we describe an alternative method for calibrating a general class of non-deterministic compartmental transmission dynamics models of epidemics. The proposed method uses a linear noise approximation to describe the size of the fluctuations, and uses each new surveillance observation to update the belief about the true epidemic state. We evaluate the accuracy of MSS for real-time parameter estimations and predict that it produces accurate estimates of key epidemic parameters ( i. e. mean duration of disease, R0, Reff ) and can provide an accurate estimate of unobserved number and timing of future hospitalizations and the overall attack rate.
Every instant of perception depends on a cascade of brain processes calibrated to the history of sensory and decisional events. In the present work, we show that human visual perception is constantly shaped by two contrasting forces exerted by sensory adaptation and past decisions. We used multilevel modeling and cross-validation approaches to investigate the impact of previous stimuli and decisions on behavioral reports during adjustment and forced-choice tasks. Our results revealed that each perceptual report is permeated by opposite biases from a hierarchy of serially dependent processes: Low-level adaptation repels perception away from the past stimuli, whereas the most recent perceptual decision attracts perceptual reports toward the recent past. This finding is consistent with a Two-process model of serial dependence in which the persistence of readout weights in a decision unit compensates for sensory adaptations, leading to attractive biases in sequential perception.
Circadian rhythms are widespread in nature and help to maintain internal temporal order as well as anticipate daily environmental changes. They use self-sustained biochemical oscillators that generate oscillations at the molecular, physiological, and behavioral levels. The Clock–Cycle ( CLK–CYC ) heterodimer constitutes a key circadian transcription complex in Drosophila. CYC has a DNA-binding domain but lacks an activation domain. Previous experiments also indicate that most of the transcriptional activity is derived from the glutamine-rich region of its partner. To address the role of transcription in core circadian timekeeping, we have analyzed the effects of a viral protein 16 ( VP16 ) fusion protein in the circadian system. This potent and well-studied viral transcription activator imparts to the clk–cYC-VP16 complex strongly enhanced transcription activity relative to that of clK. These flies also have increased levels of gene mRNAs and a short period, implicating circadian regulation in period determination. A more detailed examination of reporter gene expression suggests that the shorter period is due at least in part to a more rapid transcription phase. Importantly, the behavioral effects require a period ( per ) promoter and are therefore unlikely to be merely a consequence of generally higher PER levels on per transcription.
Horizontally acquired genes typically function as autonomous units conferring new abilities when introduced into different species. However, we reasoned that proteins preexisting in an organism might constrain the functionality of a horizontally acquired gene product if it operates on an ancestral pathway. We now show how the vertically acquired pmrD protein can activate the ancestral PmrA/PmrB two-component system in Salmonella enterica but not in the closely related bacterium Escherichia coli. The E. coli pmrD gene binds to the phosphorylated protein, which protects it from dephosphorylation by the bacterial protein. This results in transcription of genes that confer resistance to polymyxin B in low Mg2+. Our findings provide a singular example whereby the ability of an orthologous ancestral protein to confer a selective advantage upon a recipient organism is dictated by quantitative differences in biochemical activities of ancestral proteins.
The differentiation of embryonic stem cells is initiated by a gradual loss of pluripotency-associated transcripts and induction of differentiation genes. Accordingly, the detection of differentially expressed genes at the early stages of the differentiation process could assist the identification of causal genes that either promote or inhibit differentiation. The previous methods of identifying genes by comparing different cell types would inevitably include a large portion of genes in which gene expression is not important to the regulation of, rather than regulate, differentiation processes. Here, we demonstrate through the use of biological replicates and a novel statistical approach that the expression data obtained without prior separation of cells are informative for detecting the earliest group of expression levels of certain genes, Smarcad1. Applying the proposed method to a study of stem cell differentiation and experimentally verified this statistical test as a general test that is generally applicable to analyze other differentiation mechanisms.
The function of many genes is not known and their classification to pathways is scant, functional associations between genes are often inferred from large-scale omics data. Such data types—including protein–protein interactions and gene co-expression networks—are used to examine the interrelations of the implicated genes. Statistical significance is assessed by comparing the interconnectedness of mutated genes with that of random gene sets. We show that genes implicated through de novo sequence variants are biased in their coding-sequence length and longer genes tend to cluster together, which leads to exaggerated p-values in functional studies; we present here an integrative method that addresses these bias. To discern molecular pathways relevant to complex disease, we have inferred functional connections between human genes from diverse data type and assessed them with a novel phenotype-based method. Examining the functional association between gene variants we control for the heretofore unexplored confounding bias in coding sequence length. Our method shows that the disease-associated genes cluster more significantly in an integrated phenotypic-linkage network than in other gene networks and demonstrate the suitability of this method to functionally cluster variant genes underlying polygenic disorders.
In an effort to prevent continued increases in obesity and diabetes, in January 2014, the Mexican government implemented an 8% tax on nonessential foods with energy density ≥275 kcal/100 g and a peso-per-liter tax of sugar-sweetened beverages ( SSBs ). Limited rigorous evaluations of food taxes exist worldwide. The objective of this study was to examine changes in volume of taxed and untaxed packaged food purchases in response to these taxes in the entire sample and stratified by socioeconomic status. We included 6, 248 households that participated in The Nielsen Company’s Mexico Consumer Panel Services ( CPS ) in at least 2 mo during 2012–2014; average household follow-up was 32. 7 mo. Our analysis used a longitudinal, fixed-effects model that adjusted for preexisting trends to test whether the observed post-tax trend was significantly different from the one expected based on the pre-Tax trend. Low SES households purchased on average 10. 2% less taxed foods than expected ( -44 [–72, –16] g per capita per month ) ; medium Ses households did not change. Household purchases of non-essential energy-dense foods in 2014 changed by -25 g ( 95% confidence interval = -46, -11 ), or a 5. 1% change beyond what would have been expected if the taxes had not been implemented.
A common characteristic of collision-sensitive neurons is that they integrate information across a large part of the visual field. Here we present a biophysically plausible model of such neurons with η-like response properties, in which we assume that each information channel is noisy and has a response threshold. Then, an approximative power law is obtained as a result of pooling these channels. We show that with this mechanism one can successfully predict many response characteristics of Lobula Giant Movement Detector Neuron ( LGMD ). Moreover, the results depend critically on noise in the inhibitory pathway, but they are fairly robust against the excitatory pathway.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is the third most common mycobacterial infection, after tuberculosis and leprosy. BU affects people of all ages and both sexes, but mostly children below 15 years of age. Effective BU control began in Cameroon in 2002. In this article, we describe the evolution, achievements and challenges of the national BU Control Programme ( NBUCP ) and make suggestions for scaling up the programme. We analysed collated data on BU from 2001 to 2014 and reviewed activity reports of BU-DTCs. The BU detection rate was calculated and plotted on a time scale to determine trends in performance. A linear regression analysis was done to test the significance of variation in variation. This review shows that significant progress has been made in BU case detection and management, and BU research and education has gained more interest.
The ability to correctly estimate the probability of one’s choices being correct is fundamental to optimally re-evaluate previous choices or to arbitrate between different decision strategies. Experimental evidence nonetheless suggests that this metacognitive process—confidence judgment- is susceptible to numerous biases. Here, we investigate the effect of outcome valence ( gains or losses ) on confidence while participants learned stimulus-outcome associations by trial-and-error. In two experiments, participants were more confident in their choices when learning to seek gains compared to avoiding losses, despite equal difficulty and performance between those two contexts. Computational modelling revealed that the bias is driven by the context-value, a dynamically updated estimate of the average expected value of choice options, necessary to explain equal performance in the gain and loss domains. Our results reveal that confidence, revealed here for the first time in a reinforcement-learning context, is therefore domain-general, with likely important functional consequences.
Alphaviruses are enveloped positive-strand RNA viruses with a 5′ capped and 3′ polyadenylated genome of approximately 11. 5 kb. They are capable of causing serious disease in humans and domestic animals, which can also spill over to infect humans with potentially lethal consequences. Among the four non-structural proteins, nsP3 is the least well understood. Nsp3 proteins of Semliki Forest ( SFV, Sindbis ( SINV ), and Chikungunya viruses all showed avid and SH3-dependent binding to amphiphysins, two related proteins prominently involved in endocytosis and membrane trafficking. Mutations in the conserved C-terminal tails of the Src-homology-3 domains ( SH1 and -2 ) of these proteins resulted in impaired viral RNA replication in HeLa cells infected with either sindbis or SFVs. Infection of Balb/c mice with an SSS3 binding-defective nsp3 was associated with significantly decreased mortality. These data establish the role of nsPs3 in host cell interaction promoting viral replication.
Chromoblastomycosis is one of the most frequent implantation mycoses found among rural populations. Clinically, the disease is characterized by pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia with epidermal microabscesses and dermal granulomata. The disease has a slow evolution, but finally may result in disfigurement of affected body sites. In Brazil the infection is observed in all states, with an estimated prevalence of 1/196 thousand inhabitants, and in some hyperendemic regions a considerably higher prevalence is noted.
The DNA damage response ( DDR ) is an essential signaling pathway that detects DNA lesions, which constantly occur upon either endogenous or exogenous assaults, and maintains genetic integrity. An infection by an invading pathogen is one such assault, but how bacteria impact the cellular DDR is poorly documented. Here, we report that infection with Listeria monocytogenes induces host DNA breaks. Strikingly, the signature response to these breaks is only moderately activated. We uncover the role of the listerial toxin-listeriolysin O ( LLO ) in blocking the signaling response. Knocking out or inactivating proteins involved in the DDR promotes bacterial replication showing the importance of this mechanism for the control of infection.
The human herpes simplex virus-1 and -2 are common pathogens of human diseases. Both host and viral factors are involved in HSV lytic infection, although detailed mechanisms remain elusive. By screening a chemical library of epigenetic regulation, we identified bromodomain-containing protein 4 ( BRD4 ) as a critical player in infection. We found that treatment with pan BD domain inhibitor enhanced both infection and replication. Using JQ1, a defined BD1 inhibitor, acts through BRd4 protein since knockdown of expression ablated effect on virus infection by blocking the transcription of viral gene expression from chromatin targeting. The effect was confirmed by the detection of increased infectious virus production in serum starved cells compared to mock-treated controls. In addition to the identification that BRDR4 is a modulator for J Q1 action, this study demonstrates that the BCD4 transcriptional complex plays an essential role in the regulation of virus replication and transcription.
Noma, or cancrum oris, has caused devastating gangrenous oral-lesions throughout human history. It is a complex disease which arises most often in young children who are malnourished, exposed to infectious diseases, and lack access to clean water and dental hygiene. Noma has not been prevalent in developed countries since the 20th century, with the exception of concentration camps in WWII. Several risk factors are thought to work together to increase the risk of developing the disease, including poor immune function. We aim to understand the microbial ecology of noma, a devastating ancient illness which causes severe facial disfigurement in>140, 000 children every year. Our current study builds on these previous reports by using high-throughput sequencing and microarray hybridization to examine the bacterial communities in sixty samples of gingival fluid from twelve healthy children and twelve children suffering from Acute Necrotizing Gingivitis ( ANG ) ( lesion and healthy sites ). Relative to healthy individuals, samples taken from lesions in diseased mouths were enriched with Spirochaetes and depleted for Proteobacteria. Microbial communities sampled from the lesions were dominated by Prevotella intermedia OTU, which was much less abundant in healthy site samples. These findings suggest that one or more microbes within these Orders is involved in the development of these lesions.
The infectious cycle of Bacillus thuringiensis in the insect host is a powerful model to investigate the role of quorum sensing in natural conditions. It is tuned by communication systems regulators belonging to the RNPP family and directly regulated by re-internalized signaling peptides. One such regulator, NprR, acts as a transcription factor, regulating a set of genes involved in B. subtilis survival. Here, we demonstrate that the dimeric apo form of the protein negatively controls sporulation by preventing the phosphotransferase Spo0F, thus delaying the initiation of its transcriptional activation function. We propose a molecular mechanism in which key residues of a bifunctional regulator are directly and alternatively associated in its two functions.
Infection with HIV cannot currently be cured; however it can be controlled by combination treatment with multiple anti-retroviral drugs. Given different viral genotypes for virtually each individual patient, the question now arises which drug combination to use to achieve effective treatment. With the availability of viral data and clinical phenotypic data, it has become possible to create computational models able to predict an optimal treatment regimen for an individual. Current models are based only on sequence data derived from virus genotyping; chemical similarity of drugs is not considered. Here we applied proteochemometric models, combining chemical and protein target properties in a single bioactivity model. Our dataset was a large scale clinical database of drug-mutant data points, 4 ( NNRTI ), 8, Nucleoside/Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors or 9 ( PI ) drugs, and 10, 700 drug mutants. Furthermore, our models achieved a prediction error below 0. 5 Log Fold Change. Moreover, when directly compared with previously published sequence information, derived models PCM performed better in resistance classification and prediction than previous work on a high quality subset of the dataset.
Chemotaxis—cell migration towards a source of attractants—is both biologically important and theoretically interesting, so it has been widely studied. The most frequently described mechanism acts through attractant molecules causing actin polymerization, in turn leading to pseudopod formation and cell movement. We recently proposed an alternative mechanism, supported by several lines of data, which assumes that cells are made by a self-generated cycle. If chemoattractants are present, they modulate the cycle rather than directly causing the cell to change shape and direction. However, this model has two disadvantages—it is limited to cells like neutrophils with broad, stable leading edges that turn without generating or retracting cells. It also does not deal well with cells such as Dictyostelium or macrophages. To test the predictive ability of the model, we tested the effectiveness of this mechanism using a computational model. Our model reproduces a surprisingly wide range of existing data about cell movements and chemotactic cells, and it predicts both bias of cell position in low and high gradients and—unexpectedly—lateral pseudopsod initiation. This suggests that in rapidly moving cells the mechanism behind cell motility relies on modification of intrinsic pseudoptod behaviour.
The flea Yersinia pestis is transmitted by the bite of infected fleas, and two modes of transmission have been described: early-phase transmission ( EPT ) and biofilm-dependent ( BDT ). The results from different studies have not always been consistent. One complicating variable is the species of rodent blood used for the infectious blood meal. To gain insight into the mechanism of early phase transmission and the effect that host blood has on it, we fed bacteremic mouse, rat, guinea pig, or gerbil blood. We found that 10–28% of two rodent species that fed on infected rat blood refluxed a portion of the infected blood mixture from the midgut to the esophagus within 24 h of feeding. At their next feeding, rats and Sciurids were 3–25 times more likely to appear partially blocked, with fresh blood retained within the blood, than were rats without PIER. Our data support a model in which the relative insolubility of rats, the slower digestion of their blood appears to promote regurgitative transmission, which may be one reason why these rodents are particularly prominent in plague ecology.
Our visual system not only yields perception with certainty, but it also allows us to make complex judgments very rapidly—a fact that places additional constraints on the population neural code. Previous studies have shown these correlations to be detrimental to the fidelity of population codes, or at best marginally favorable compared to independent codes. Here, we show that positive correlations can enhance coding performance by a simple mechanism: the probability of discrimination error can be suppressed by many orders of magnitude. Likewise, the number of stimuli encoded—the capacity—can be enhanced more than tenfold. These effects do not necessitate unrealistic correlation values, and can occur for populations with a few tens of neurons.
Vibrio cholerae is the cause of cholera, a severe watery diarrheal disease caused by toxigenic strains. Protection against cholaera is serogroup specific. The O-specific polysaccharide ( OSP ) antigen ( LPS ) is specific to the Osp. In this study, we describe a conjugate vaccine for choleera prepared via squaric acid chemistry from the oral O1 Inaba strain PIC018 and a recombinant heavy chain fragment of tetanus toxin ( oSP:rTTHc ). We assessed a range of vaccine doses based on the dosage of the vaccine ( 10-50 μg ), vaccine compositions varying by molar loading ratio of O SP to rTHTc, effect of an adjuvant, and route of immunization. Immunized mice developed prominent antibody responses, as well as vibriocidal antibody and memory B cell responses following intramuscular or intradermal vaccination. Mice did not develop anti-squarate responses. Intestinal lamina proprial IgA responses were blunted in mice receiving the highest dose of vaccines. Administration of a vaccine that induces high-level and long-term immune responses against the lPS antigen resulted in 55% protective efficacy in a mouse survival challenge model.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a chronic, debilitating vector-borne disease that affects about 68 million people in 73 countries in tropical and subtropical areas of Asia, Africa, the Western Pacific and some regions of the Americas. The disease is caused by the filarial parasites Wuchereria bancrofti, Brugia malayi and B. timori, which are transmitted by Culex, Anopheles and Mansonia mosquitoes. However, similar associations have not been demonstrated from other areas with contrasting levels of L. loa endemicity. This study investigated the cross-reactivity of ICT when mapping LF prevalence and intensity in areas highly endemic for loiasis and mansonellosis in Cameroon. In 42 villages across seven health districts ( HDs ) in three regions ( East, North-west and South-West ) of Cameroon rainforest domain, we found that the prevalence of LF was 1. 1% ( 24/2190 ). Lymphoedema were diagnosed in 20 individuals with the majority of cases found in the North West ( 11/20 ), and none of them were tested positive by ivermectin MDA. We also found no association between the frequency of infection and the intensity of Mf.
Positive-strand RNA ( +RNA ) viruses of eukaryotes replicate in the cytoplasm of infected host cells. Their replication complexes are commonly associated with modified host cell membranes. Membrane structures supporting viral RNA synthesis range from distinct spherular membrane invaginations to more elaborate webs of packed membranes and vesicles. Generally, their ultrastructure, morphogenesis, and exact role in viral replication remain to be defined. We have now applied electron tomography of cryofixed infected cells for the three-dimensional imaging of coronavirus-induced membrane alterations at high resolution. Our analysis defines a unique reticulovesicular network of modified endoplasmic reticular membranes, numerous interconnected DMVs ( diameter 200–300 nm ) and “vesicle packets” apparently arising from DMV merger. The convoluted membranes were most abundantly immunolabeled for viral replicase subunits. However, double-standed RNA, presumably revealing the site of viral mRNA synthesis, was mainly localized to the DMV interior. Since we could not discern a connection between DMV exterior and cytosol, our analysis raises several questions about the mechanism of DMV formation and the actual sites of SARS-CoV RNA replication. Together with biochemical studies of the viral enzyme complex, this ‘replication network’ will aid to further dissect the early stages of virus-host interactions.
The plant root is a specialized organ that allows uptake of both water and solutes from the soil environment, to support normal plant growth and development. A long held model to explain this regulation includes the function of the extracellular biopolymer suberin acting as a barrier to limit the apoplastic transport of water in the root. However, no direct genetic evidence supports this foundational model. Here we report on the cloning and characterization of one of these ionomics mutants ( esb1-1 ), originally reported as mutant 14501. This mutant, which has been previously reported to have elevated leaf K, Mo and Cd and reduced Ca, Mn, and Zn, was found to be associated with decreases in water transpiration rates and increased water-use efficiency during their vegetative growth period. Furthermore, the changes observed in elemental accumulation in leaves are also interpreted as evidence that a significant component of this radial root transport occurs in an apoplast.
The single photon response ( SPR ) in vertebrate phototransduction is regulated by the dynamics of rhodopsin during its lifetime, including the random number of phosphorylations, the catalytic activity and the sojourn time between steps. Because of this randomness the electrical responses are expected to be inherently variable. The mechanisms that confer to the SPR such a low variability are not completely understood. In this study, we use a spatio-temporal model of the photoresponse, interfaced with the biochemistry, to analyze to what extent each of them contributes to variability suppression. Our results show that only one of its components, R* shutoff, is responsible for the variability, whereas the second messengers act as a variability suppressor.
The dynamics of stochastic reaction networks within cells are inevitably modulated by factors considered extrinsic to the network such as, for instance, the fluctuations in ribosome copy numbers for a gene regulatory network. While several recent studies demonstrate the importance of accounting for such extrinic components, their resulting models are typically hard to analyze. In this work we develop a general mathematical framework that allows to uncouple the reaction network from its dynamic environment by incorporating only the environment's effect into a new model. More technically, we show how such fluctuating components ( e. g., chemical species ) can be marginalized in an uncoupled fashion. We derive its corresponding process- and master equations and show the significance of the approach.
Brain-machine interfaces ( BMI ) have the potential to enable motor function in individuals with neurological injury or disease. Many studies have used decoders such as Kalman filters and finding their parameters with closed-loop decoder adaptation ( CLDA ). However, current methods do not model the spikes directly, and hence may limit the processing time-scale of BMI control and adaptation. Therefore, a unified and systematic framework that can be used to perform all these manipulations does not exist. Here we develop a novel closed loop BMI training architecture that allows for processing, control, adaptation using spike events. The architecture incorporates an infinite-horizon optimal feedback-control ( OFC ) model of the brain’s behavior and a point process model, termed intention estimation. We use the architecture to design an autonomous and dynamic assisted training technique. Spike-event-based adaptation resulted in faster and more consistent performance convergence compared with batch- based methods. These results have significant implications towards the development of clinically-viable neuroprosthetics.
Redundancies and correlations in the responses of sensory neurons may seem to waste neural resources, but they can also carry cues about structured stimuli and may help the brain to correct for response errors. To investigate the effect of stimulus structure on redundancy in retina, we measured simultaneous responses from populations of retinal ganglion cells presented with natural and artificial stimuli that varied greatly in correlation structure; these stimuli are publicly available online. We found that in response to spatio-temporally correlated stimuli such as natural movies, pairwise correlations were modestly more correlated than predicted by a non-adapting functional model. Meanwhile, when responding to stimuli with purely spatial correlations, pairs of cells showed increased correlations consistent with a static receptive field and nonlinearity. These properties of individual cells, along with gain changes that opposed changes in effective contrast, largely explained the pattern of pairswise correlation across stimuli where receptive fields measurements were possible.
Genetic interactions occur when a combination of mutations results in a surprising phenotype. These interactions capture functional redundancy, and thus are important for predicting function, dissecting protein complexes into functional pathways and exploring the sources underlying complex inherited human diseases. Synthetic sickness and lethality are the most studied types of genetic interactions in yeast. However, only a small proportion of gene pairs have been tested for these interactions due to the large number of possible combinations of genes. To expand the set of known synthetic lethal ( SL ) interactions, we have devised an integrative, multi-network approach that significantly improves upon the existing approaches. We developed a non-parametric mult-classifier system that enabled the simultaneous use of multiple classification procedures. Several comprehensive experiments demonstrated that the SL-independent features in conjunction with the advanced classification scheme led to an improved performance when compared to a current state of the art method. Using this approach we derived the first yeast transcription factor genetic interaction network, part of which was well supported by literature.
The BRCA Challenge is a long-term data-sharing project initiated within the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health ( GA4GH ) to aggregate data to support highly collaborative research activities. The goal is to generate an informed and current understanding of the impact of genetic variation on cancer risk across the iconic breast and ovarian cancer predisposition genes. Initially, reported variants available from public databases were integrated into a single, newly created site, www. brcaexchange. org. More than 20, 000 variants have been aggregated, three times the number found in the next-largest public database at the project’s outset, of which approximately 7, 250 have expert classifications. This data set is based on shared information from existing clinical databases—Breast Cancer Information Core ( BIC ), ClinVar, and the Leiden Open Variation Database ( LOVD ) ) —as well as population databases, all linked to a one point of access. Ongoing work includes direct contact with national centers with access to clinical information and using the additional observations to improve evidence-based classification.
Malaria, caused by the apicomplexan parasite Plasmodium falciparum, still represents a major threat to human health and welfare and leads to about one million human deaths annually. In order to deal with high fluxes of reactive oxygen species and maintain redox regulatory processes and pathogenicity, the parasite depends upon an adequate balance. By systematically studying the subcellular localization of the major antioxidant and antioxidant regulatory proteins, we obtained the first complete map of Redox compartmentation. We demonstrate the targeting of two peroxiredoxins and a putative glyoxalase system to the parasitophorous vacuole, a non-photosynthetic plastid. Interestingly, for the two major antioxidants – glutathione reductase and thioredoxin-like proteins – we made use of alternative-translation-initiation ( ATI ) to achieve differential targeting. This dual localization is likely to occur also in other Apicomeplexa and might open new avenues for therapeutic intervention.
The discovery of intrinsically disordered proteins ( IDPs ) requires a reconsideration of the principles of protein-protein interactions, which have largely been examined using well-defined structured proteins. In the cell correct folding and binding of many proteins is essential for biological function, and the dominant descriptions of binding mechanisms are based on those described by Fischer: “lock and key” ( rigid binding ) and flexible binding. Electrostatic interactions are known to play important roles in binding processes, but so far only a limited number of experiments have investigated these interactions within coupled folding reactions. We have used a structure-based coarse-grained model, with an explicit Debye—Hückel charge model to probe the importance of electrostatic interaction both in the early and later stages of this model coupled fold and bound process. This model was carefully calibrated with the experimental data on helical content and affinity and shown to be consistent with previously published experimental results on binding rate changes with respect to ionic strength. Our results provide a residue level of detail for the mechanism of coupling between PUMA and Mcl-1.
Polycomb group ( PcG ) proteins are conserved chromatin factors that maintain silencing of key developmental genes outside of their expression domains. Recent genome-wide analyses showed a Polycomb ( PC ) distribution in the cell nucleus, and it has been recently shown that PC bodies form local and long-range spatial networks. Here, we studied the nuclear distribution of two PC proteins, PC and Polyhomeotic ( PH ), during fly embryogenesis as well as compare their behavior to that of the condensed fraction of euchromatin. In this motion regime, each PC body and PC domain has its own fast and highly constrained motion. Moreover, both types of domains move within volumes much smaller than chromosome territories, strongly restricting their possibility of interaction with other nuclear structures.
Somatic mutations of mtDNA are implicated in the aging process, but there is no universally accepted method for their accurate quantification. We have used next-generation sequencing of the human mitochondrial genome to study genome-wide mt DNA mutation load in liver of normally- and prematurely-aging mice. Mice that are homozygous for an allele expressing a proof-reading–deficient copy of a mitochondrial DNA polymerase have 10-times-higher point mutation loads than their wildtype siblings. In addition, we found no increase in levels of point mutations or deletions in wild type C57Bl/6N mice with increasing age, thus questioning the causative role of these changes in aging. Our results from studies of mice thus indicate that most mutations occur as replication errors during development and do not result from damage accumulation in adult life.
The anaerobic bacterium Fusobacterium nucleatum uses glutamate decarboxylation to generate a transmembrane gradient of Na+. Here, we demonstrate that this ion-motive force is directly coupled to ATP synthesis, via an F1Fo-ATP synthase, shared by other human pathogens. Molecular modeling and free-energy simulations of the enzyme, the c-ring, indicate a novel ion coupling mechanism in ATP synthases. Consistently, activity measurements showed that the C11 ring, either membrane-embedded or isolated, is sensitive to the ionophore monensin. Furthermore, this motif implies that a proton is concurrently bound to all sites, although Na alone drives the rotary mechanism. The structure thus reveals a new mode of electrochemical coupling and provides a basis for drug-design efforts against this opportunistic pathogen.
T cell receptor ( TCR ) recognition of foreign peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex ( pMHC ) molecules on the surface of antigen presenting cells is a key event in the initiation of adaptive cellular immunity to pathogens and tumors. In vitro, high-affinity binding and/or long-lived interactions between CD4+ T cell epitopes correlate with a high level of activation. However, less is known about the influence of T receptor/mHC interaction parameters on T cells responses in vivo. Here, we examined the effect of in vitro T-cell responses to immunization with peptide ligands that are stronger than the natural 5C. C7 ligand MCC ( 88–103 ). Contrary to predictions, our results show that optimal in-vivo responses occur to liganded with intermediate T CR/pMH half-lives. The diminished responses we observed were associated with attenuation of intracellular signaling, expansion, and function, rather than increased cell death, overactivation, or clonal exhaustion. Our results highlight the importance of considering the in–varying efficacy of t cell receptors as part of vaccine design.
The fungus Nectria haematococca is a member of a group of >50 species known as the “Fusarium solani species complex”. Members of this complex have diverse biological properties including the ability to cause disease on >100 genera of plants and opportunistic infections in humans. The current research analyzed one of the most extensively studied fungi, N. haemaatiolca mating population VI ( MPVI ). Several genes controlling gene expansion in this species are located on supernumerary chromosomes. Optical mapping revealed that the sequenced isolate has 17 chromosomes ranging from 530 kb to 6. 52 Mb and that its physical size, 54. 43 Mb, and the number of predicted genes, 15, 707, are among the largest reported for ascomycetes. Two classes of genes have contributed to genome expansion: specific genes that are not found in other fungi including its closest known relative, Fusearium graminearum, but are present as multiple copies. These additional genes appear to have resulted from gene duplication events, while others may have been acquired through horizontal gene transfer.
Pseudorabies virus ( PRV; suid herpesvirus 1 ) is a veterinary pathogen, widely used as a neuroanatomical tracing tool, and related to the human alpha herpesviruses varicella-zoster virus and herpes simplex virus 1 and 2 ( HSV-1 & -2 ). Transport and egress of newly assembled particles from infected cells are a highly dynamic process involving the host secretory pathway working in concert with viral components. We developed a live-cell fluorescence microscopy method to visualize the final transport and exocytosis of virus particles in non-polarized epithelial cells. This method takes advantage of a virus-encoded pH-sensitive probe to selectively image particle dynamics near the plasma membrane, using a pH sensitive fluorescent probe that reveals the precise moment and location of particle movement. Using this method, we imaged a panel of cellular proteins to identify those spatially and dynamically associated with virus particle transport. Based on our data, individual particles are tightly docked at the surface of the infected cell for several seconds, then membrane fusion occurs, displacing the virion a small distance across the cell membrane. The virus remains tightly confined on the outer cell surface.
Enterobius vermicularis ( human pinworm ) is the most common parasite encountered in developed countries, and it has been suggested as a good candidate for testing the link between the “hygiene hypothesis” and disease. In Taiwan, enterobiasis is found in about 0. 6–3% of primary school children. However, a large population cohort study collecting data of mebendazole prescriptions and chronic inflammatory diseases in Denmark showed that childhood exposure to parasites might have protective effects against the development of allergies and autoimmunity.
Identifying the loci underlying quantitative phenotypes is among the central challenges in genetics. The current quantitative genetics paradigm is based on the assumption of additive gene action, despite an increasing body of evidence showing that non-additive effects are crucial to many, if not most, biological systems. Here, we examined the genetics of Arabidopsis thaliana root length and found that the genomic narrow-sense heritability for this trait in the examined population was statistically zero. This low amount of genetic variance could be captured by the genome-wide genotypes, which likely explains why no associations were detected using standard additive-model-based genomewide association ( GWA ) approaches. We also performed an epistatic analysis to identify candidate genes that affected root development in four regions that were part of three of the pairs. Our results illustrate the value of statistical epistatics for revealing novel locis contributing to complex traits in small, inbred populations.
Inherited mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) mutations have emerged as a common cause of inherited metabolic disease, affecting 1 in 10, 000 of the population. Many of these variants have recurred several times in different populations and on diverse haplogroup backgrounds, but it is not clear whether this is limited to a handful of examples or is a more general phenomenon. To address this, we determined the characteristics of 30, 506 mt DNA sequences sampled globally. After performing several quality control steps we ascribed an established pathogenicity score to the major alleles for each sequence. We observed that disease-causing mutations were more frequent on young sequences than on older sequences, and genomes with two or more pathogenic mutations more common than expected by chance. Sequence diversity estimates showed that the genetic background more generally influences the risk of developing mitochondrial disease in older populations. This provides an explanation for the low frequency of mitochondrial diseases reported in specific ethnic groups.
In cancer metastasis, embryonic development, and wound healing, cells can coordinate their motion, leading to collective motility. To characterize these cell-cell interactions, which include contact inhibition of locomotion ( CIL ), micropatterned substrates are often used to restrict cell migration to linear, quasi-one-dimensional paths. In these assays, collisions between polarized cells occur frequently with only a few possible outcomes, such as cells reversing direction, sticking to one another, or walking past one other. Using a computational phase field model of collective cell motile that includes the mechanics of cell shape and a minimal chemical model, we are able to reproduce all cases seen in two cell collisions. A subtle balance between the internal cell polarization and the cell adhesion governs the collision outcome. These parameters suggest hypotheses for why different cell types have different collision behavior, the effect of interventions that modulate collision outcomes.
Thioredoxin ( Trx ) is a powerful and universal protein disulfide bond oxido-reductase with a very low redox potential. In the absence of a structured protein environment, it has become an important tool to explore the structural dynamics of proteins and their implications for function. Here, computational approaches have made profound contributions to the study of enzymatic reaction mechanisms in recent years, typically combining MD simulations and quantum-mechanical calculations. Molecular dynamics simulations, pKa calculations, reactivity analysis with conceptual density functional theory ( DFT ) and biochemical complex formation experiments with Cys-mutants are applied to probe different aspects of the reaction mechanism of interest. We observed that the conformational changes around the intermediate disurfide bring the nucleophilic attack on the exposed cysteine, resulting in an unproductive cycle. Furthermore, we found that this reaction is activated as a thiolate in the triphosphorylation complex. This multidisciplinary approach provides fresh insights into a universal and consistent mechanism that results in reduced substrate and oxidized trx.
People change their choices, usually in the direction of conformity, when they learn what others value. However, far from being fixed personality characteristics, tastes are plastic. They tend to align, for example, with those of others even if such conformity is not rewarded. We hypothesised that people can be uncertain about their tastes. People can thus learn about them by considering evidence, such as the preferences of relevant others, and then performing Bayesian updating. Temporal discounting coefficients are an important example of taste–for patience. These coefficients quantify impulsivity, have good psychometric properties and can change upon observing others’ choices. Our findings have important neuroscientific, clinical and developmental significance.
In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, filamentous growth is a complex differentiation response that occurs under specific environmental conditions. In response to nutrient limitation, yeast undergoes a highly regulated response in which changes in polarity, cell-cycle progression, and gene expression induce the formation of branched chains of interconnected and elongated filaments. An important question therefore is to understand how different pathway activities are coordinated during complex behaviors. We developed a screening approach ( called secretion profiling ) that measures release of the extracellular domain of Msb2p, the signaling mucin which functions at the head of a signaling pathway. Secretion profiling of complementary genomic collections showed that many of these regulators were also required for FG pathway activation. This regulation sensitized the pathway to multiple stimuli and synchronized it to the global signaling network. Accessibility to MSB2 promoter was further regulated by the histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) Rpd3p ( L ), which positively regulated the activity of FG pathways. Our findings provide the first glimpse of how a global regulatory hierarchy is likely to coordinate other regulatory networks that control complex behavior.
Changes in gene expression have been hypothesized to play an important role in the evolution of divergent morphologies. To test this hypothesis in a model system, we examined differences in fruiting body morphology of five filamentous fungi, culturing them in their common garden environment, and profiling genome-wide expression at five developmental stages. Our evolutionary approach to finding relevant genes proved far more efficient than other gene deletion studies targeting whole genomes or gene families. Combining expression measurements with knockout phenotypes facilitated the refinement of Bayesian networks of regulatory modules.
The schistosome egg represents an attractive developmental stage at which to target transgenes because of the high ratio of germ to somatic cells, because the transgene might be propagated and amplified by infecting snails with the miracidia hatched from treated eggs, and because eggs can be readily obtained from experimentally infected rodents. We investigated the utility of square wave electroporation to deliver transgenices and other macromolecules including fluorescent ( Cy3 ) short interference ( si ) RNA molecules, messenger RNAs, virions into eggs of Schistomosoma mansoni. First, eggs were incubated in cy3-labeled siRNA with and without square waves. Second, we were exposed to Moloney murine leukemia virus ( MLV ) pseudotyped with vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein ( VSVG ). PCR was more efficient than soaking alone for transduction of eggs with MLVs than simply soaking the eggs in virion-exposed eggs. These findings underscore the potential of targeting the egg for germ line gene manipulation and to combat the morbidity and mortality associated with this neglected tropical disease.
In the cellular environment, biological processes often involve large assemblies of macromolecules, such as ribosome complex in protein synthesis, assembly of virus capsid, and chaperone systems assisting protein folding. Understanding how signaling communications are transmitted and the dynamics of such allosteric communications in these biological nanomachines at multiple time scale is an important problem. In this study, we develop a novel approach called Perturbation-based Markovian Transmission ( PMT ) model to study globally the dynamic responses of all residues. We show that this approach can yield rich information. Our predictions have an accuracy of 71–84% judged by independent experimental studies reported in the literature.
Fungal lectins play an important role in the defense against predators, parasites and pathogens due to their ability to recognize specific carbohydrate signatures displayed on the cell surfaces of these organisms. Examples of the former type are bacterial toxins directed against bacterivores ( Bacillus thuringiensis crystal toxins ), plant and fungal mucosal pathogens ( RegIIIγ [3] and galectin-3 [4], respectively ). The effector role of all these toxins is based on their toxicity towards the predator or pathogen recognized by the lectin. Here, we show that feeding of a fungus fungus, Coprinopsis cinerea CGL2, to Caenorhabditis elegans inhibited development and reproduction and ultimately resulted in killing of this nematode. Our results suggest that fungi play a role by binding to specific glycoconjugates of fungi.
The existence of long-lived reservoirs of latently infected CD4+ T cells is the major barrier to curing HIV, and has been extensively studied in this light. However, the effect of these reservoirs on the evolutionary dynamics of the virus has received little attention. Here, we present a within-host quasispecies model that incorporates a latent reservoir, which we then nest into an epidemiological model of HIV dynamics. We find that the presence of latent reservoirs can severely delay the evolution of intermediate viral loads consistent with maximising transmission, an effect that can be further enhanced if viruses similar to those that initiate infection are preferentially transmitted.
Many viruses encode proteins whose major function is to evade or disable the host T cell response. Nevertheless, most viruses are readily detected by host immune cells, and induce relatively strong immune responses. Herein, we employ transgenic CD4+ and CD8+ T cells as sensors to evaluate in vitro and in vivo antigen presentation by coxsackievirus B3 ( CVB3 ). We show that this virus almost completely inhibits the presentation of MHC class I epitopes derived from lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus ( LCMV ), thereby evading immune cell immunity. In contrast, the virus is able to induce strong endogenous responses to both antigen and antigen presentations, but is unable to elicit memory responses that are, by several criteria, phenotypically normal. Our findings have implications for the efficiency of antigen cross-presentation during virus infection.
Leprosy Type 1 reactions are a major cause of nerve damage and the preventable disability that results. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of three days of high dose ( 1 g ) intravenous methylprednisolone ( MP ) at the start of prednisolemic therapy in leprosy type 1 reaction and nerve function impairment. Forty-two individuals were randomised to receive either high-dose IV MP ( n ='20 ) or oral-dietary ( i. e. not taking corticosteroids ). There were no significant differences in the rate of adverse events or clinical improvement at completion of the study. However individuals treated with high doses of MP were less likely to experience deterioration in sensory function between day 29 and day 113. This study lends further support to the use of more prolonged courses of glucosuppressant to treat Type 2 reactions.
CD8 T cells play a crucial role in the control of viral infection. While several lines of evidence indicate that HIV-specific CD4+CD25highFoxP3+ T cell ( Treg ) exert differential effects on CD8 subsets, and maintain the memory / effector T-cell balance, at least in part through the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway. Here we show that, in conditions of chronic HIV infection, the ultimate failure to contain generalized HIV–associated immune activation is a joint result of intrinsic impairment of CDreg function and decreased responsiveness of the effectors clones. Our results strongly suggest that this particular defect of this pathway might contribute to the exhaustion of virus-derived T lymphoid responses.
Lymphatic filariasis is considered as a major obstacle to economic development in endemic countries and identified as the second leading cause of permanent and long-term disability. Parasites possibly accomplish this by adopting various immunomodulatory strategies, which include release of glutathione-S-transferases ( GSTs ) that counteract the oxidative free radicals produced by the host. However, vaccine potential of GST has not been evaluated before. In the present study, the GST gene was cloned from the third stage larval ( L3 ) cDNA libraries of Wuchereria bancrofti, and recombinant GST was expressed and purified. Serum samples from individuals living in an endemic area were analyzed for their reactivity with rWbGST. These findings showed that sera from endemic normal individuals ( EN ) carry significant levels of antibodies against W. malayi GST compared to subjects who are microfilaraemic ( Mf ) or show symptoms of clinical pathology ( CP ). The study also showed a predominance of IgG antibodies in EN individuals. Therefore, we have attempted to evaluate the efficacy of filarial GST for vaccine development.
CRISPR-Cas9 technologies have transformed genome-editing of experimental organisms and have immense therapeutic potential. However, concerns remain over the potential for off-target effects. Recent studies have addressed these concerns using whole-genome sequencing ( WGS ) of gene-edited embryos or animals to search for de novo mutations ( DNMs ), which may represent candidate changes introduced by poor editing fidelity. In this study, we used a trio design and whole genome sequenced 8 parents and 19 embryos, where 10 of the embryos were mutagenised with well-characterised gRNAs targeting the coat colour Tyrosinase ( Tyr ) locus. Detailed analyses of these genome data allowed us to conclude that the number of mutations occurring in treated embryos is not statistically distinguishable from the background rate of DNM occurring due to other processes.
The stomatal pores are located on the plant leaf epidermis and regulate CO2 uptake for photosynthesis and the loss of water by transpiration. Blue light, one of the environmental signals that regulates the green/UV-A light-absorbing cryptochromes and phototropins. The signal transduction cascades that link the perception of light to the response are still largely unknown. Here, we report two new players, Hypersensitive to Red and Blue 1 ( HRB1 ) and Protein Phosphatase 7 ( PP7 ), and their genetic and biochemical interactions in the control of red and blue light. We report the involvement of these two proteins in regulating the red-to-dark and dark-green light responses. Both proteins are expressed in guard cells in response to light signals and diurnal cues. In the pp7 mutant, this size shift is impaired, but the protein complex is predominately phosphorylated. This study may furnish strategies that allow plants to enjoy the advantages of both constitutive and ABA-induced protection under water-limiting conditions.
In eukaryotes, RNA polymerase II ( PolII ) dependent gene expression requires accessory factors termed transcriptional coregulators. The Mediator is a multisubunit complex that, at the minimum, serves a critical linking function between regulatory factors and the transcription initiation machinery. However, it is unclear whether individual components within the same regulatory complex can exert such separable effects. Here, we show that the Caenorhabditis elegans mediator subunit MDT-15 displays a broader spectrum of activities, and that it integrates metabolic responses to materials ingested by the nematode. Depletion or mutation of the mdt-16 gene abrogated induction of specific detoxification genes in response to certain xenobiotics or heavy metals, rendering these animals hypersensitive to toxin exposure. Intriguingly, the functional defects did not affect other stress responses, e. g., thermotolerance. Together with our previous finding that Drosophila melanogaster DRS-1/TRAP220:NHR-49 regulatory complexes coordinate a sector of its fasting response, our results suggest a model whereby the Drs-7/RGR/SOP-3/MDT15 integrates several regulatory pathways to monitor both the availability and quality of ingested materials.
In order for an animal to be able to navigate through space, remember its route, find shortcuts, and so forth, it must have a fairly sophisticated internal representation of the spatial environment. This internal map is made possible by the activity of pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus known as place cells. These neurons are so named because of their striking spatial selectivity: they fire a series of action potentials in different, discrete regions of a space. Each region, referred to as that cell's “place field, ” is defined by its pattern of neuronal firing ( most intense at the center and attenuated toward the edges of its field ) —elsewhere, the cell remains silent. The hippocampal map thus seems to form the basis for the animal's spatial memory and spatial cognition. Here we test this topological hypothesis with computer simulations of rat trajectories in three topologically and geometrically distinct test environments. Using a computational algorithm based on recently developed tools from Persistent Homology theory, we find that the patterns of neuron co-firing can, in fact, convey topology information about the environment in a biologically realistic length of time. We propose that this learning region provides a coherent theoretical lens through which to view conditions that impair spatial learning by altering place cell firing rates.
The current model of hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) production involves the assembly of virions on or near the surface of lipid droplets, envelopment at the ER in association with components of VLDL synthesis, and egress via the secretory pathway. However, the cellular requirements for and a mechanistic understanding of this process are incomplete at best. In this study, we combined an RNA interference ( RNAi ) analysis of host factors for infectious viral secretion with the development of live cell imaging of the core protein ( TC-core ) to study the dynamics of core trafficking. We identified numerous host cofactors that are required for viral entry and replication, lipid and protein kinases that regulate budding from the trans-Golgi network ( TGN ), VAMP1 vesicles and adaptor proteins and the recycling endosome. The majority of dynamic core traffics to the cell periphery along microtubules and this movement can be inhibited by nocodazole. Sub-populations of a tetracysteine tag insertion in core are dependent upon successful virion assembly and co-traffic with proteins of recycling and apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ). This study identifies many new host proteins involved in viral assembly.
Genetic alterations occur in cancers and play important roles in pathogenesis. A common cancer-promoting mechanism is the homozygous loss of a tumor suppressor gene, for example Tp53. Loss of the expressed parental allele produces a functionally nullizygous state, and the parental source is not known to influence the cancer phenotype. The imprinting mechanism modulates gene expression in a manner that defies Mendelian predictions. To identify mechanisms that are commonly altered in Nf1-mediated tumorigenesis and might function as second events, we mutagenized mice heterozygously for the neurofibromin protein to model radiotherapy-associated second malignant neoplasms that arise in irradiated NF1 patients. Expression analysis of tumor cell lines established from our mouse models identified Grb10 expression as widely absent in diverse tumor histologies. We performed functional studies to test whether loss or loss alter fundamental features of tumors, with a functional consequence in untransformed primary cells. This work identifies a novel role for an imprinted gene in promoting central features and promotes the development of malignancies.
Learning to predict threat from environmental cues is a fundamental skill in changing environments. This aversive learning process is exemplified by Pavlovian threat conditioning ( also termed fear conditioning ) in which the contingent presentation of predictive cues ( conditioned stimuli, CS ) engages a process of associative learning. However, different computational models give rise to different and partly opposing predictions for the trial-by-trial dynamics of learning, for example expressed in the activity of the autonomic nervous system ( ANS ). Here, we investigate the neural mechanisms that underlie the formation and maintenance of these predictions in humans. We use a statistical framework for psychophysiological modelling and a probabilistic model to infer the underlying learning mechanism. Across three experiments, and both for skin conductance ( SCR ) and pupil size responses ( PSR, which track expected outcome and uncertainty, respectively, ) we find that the learning model best explains the data. Notably, SCRs and PSRs reflect different quantities of a different model: ScR track a mixture of expected outcomes, while PSr track an uncertainty alone. In summary, our results provide systematic evidence that prediction of future outcomes may be based on an in-built assumption of stationarity.
The septum initiation network ( SIN ) plays an essential role in fungal cytokinesis/septation and conidiation for asexual reproduction, while the mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) pathway depends on successive signaling cascade phosphorylation to sense and respond to stress and environmental factors. In this study, a SepH suppressor–PomA in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans is identified as a negative regulator of the sIN and the high-osmolarity glycerol ( HOG ) signaling pathways. PomA mutant is able to cure defects of sepH1 in septication. Under the normal cultural condition, the induced phospholylated HogA is capable of bypassing the requirement of a key player for early events during cytokineis but not for MobA/SidB. Moreover, we show that the osmotic stimuli-induced sintation is unable to bypass the whole SIS requirement. Findings demonstrate that crosstalk exists between the SINS and MAP kinases.
Tegumentary Leishmaniasis ( TL ) is endemic in Latin America, and Brazil contributes approximately 20 thousand cases per year. The pathogenesis of TL, however, is still not fully understood. Clinical manifestations vary from cutaneous ( CL ) to more severe outcomes, such as disseminated ( DL ), mucosal ( ML ) and diffuse ( DCL ). Many factors have been associated with the severity of the disease and the development of lesions. In the present study, 156 patients who attended Rondonia's Hospital of Tropical Medicine with both the clinical diagnoses ( 109 CL; 38 ML; 5 CL+ML; 3 DL and 1 DC ) were included in the study. Our study showed that LVR1 was detected in L. braziliensis, 18 ( 11. 5% ) samples were positive for the virus and 4 ( 2. 6%, DL ( n = 3 ) ) negative for LRV1. Patients who showed the least frequent types of injuries were excluded from subsequent statistical analyses to avoid confounding factors.
Streptococcus pneumoniae infection is a leading cause of bacterial pneumonia, sepsis and meningitis and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. Type I interferon ( IFN-I ), whose contribution to antiviral and intracellular bacterial immunity is well established, is also elicited during pneumococcal infection, yet its functional significance is not well defined. In this study, we show that IFNF- I plays an important role in the host defense against pneumobacterium by counteracting the transmigration of bacteria from the lung to the blood. Mice that lack the type I receptor ( Ifnar1−/− ) or mice that were treated with a neutralizing antibody against the receptor, exhibited enhanced development of bacteremia following intranasal infection and maintained comparable bacterial numbers in their lung, while maintaining comparable levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1 and TNFα. We also found that treatment of mice with synthetic double stranded RNA ( poly ( I:C ) reduced bacterial invasion and transcytosis across epithelial and endothelial layers, which we found to be critical for protection against invasion from a gram-positive, extracellular bacterium at the epithelium barrier.
Neural networks with a single plastic layer employing reward modulated spike time dependent plasticity ( STDP ) are capable of learning simple foraging tasks. Here we demonstrate advanced pattern discrimination and continuous learning in a network of spiking neurons with multiple plastic layers and implemented multiple mechanisms for homeostatic regulation of synaptic efficacy. We found that addition of a hidden layer of neurons employing both rewarded and non-reward-modulated stimulation induced neurons that responded to the specific combinations of inputs and thus performed basic classification of the input patterns. Synaptic noise allowed for trial-and-error learning that helped to identify the goal-oriented strategies which were effective in task solving.
During pregnancy, the ETS transcription factor ELF5 establishes the milk-secreting alveolar cell lineage by driving a cell fate decision of the mammary luminal progenitor cell. In breast cancer, this decision is driven by a key transcriptional determinant of tumor subtype and has been implicated in the development of insensitivity to anti-estrogen therapy. We have used our inducible mouse model of breast tumor virus-Polyoma Middle T ( MMTV-PyMT ) to investigate the roles played by the tumor-derived suppressor cells, a group of immature neutrophils recently identified as mediators of vasculogenesis and metastasis, in response to tumor induction. Depletion of these cells using specific Ly6G antibodies prevented the cells from driving tumor growth by co-opting the innate immune system. Expression signatures in breast cancers indicated that increased myeloid cell invasion and inflammation were correlated with tumor expression, and increased immunohistochemical staining predicted much shorter and overall survival of patients. Thus, increased lymphocyte infiltration, angiogenesis, inflammation and tumor suppression were the key factors that allow tumors to evade immune control.
Chromatin loops, which can be characterized by three factors—connection pattern, distance between regulatory elements, and communication form, play an important role in determining the level of cell-to-cell variability in gene expression. These quantitative experiments call for a corresponding modeling effect that addresses the question of how changes in these factors affect variability at the expression level in a systematic rather than case-by-case fashion. In this paper, we make such an effort, based on a mechanic model that maps three fundamental patterns for two interacting DNA loops into a 4–state model of stochastic transcription. We first show that in contrast to looping, nested loops enhance mRNA expression and reduce expression noise whereas alternating loops have just opposite effects. Our analysis and results justify the facilitated chromatin–looping hypothesis.
Metabolic engineering increasingly depends upon RNA technology to customly rewire the metabolism to maximize production. To this end, pure riboregulators allow dynamic gene repression without the need of a potentially burdensome coexpressed protein like typical Hfq binding small RNAs and clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats ( CRISPR ) technology. Despite this clear advantage, no clear general design principles are available to de novo develop repressing RNA. Here, to overcome this lack of knowledge on the functionality of repress riborgulator, translation inhibiting RNA are developed from scratch. In total, 12 structural and thermodynamic features were defined of which six of them were retained after removing correlations from an in silico generated library. From this translation inhibition RNA library, 18 ribores were selected using a experimental design and subsequently constructed and co-examined with two target untranslated regions to link the functional features to functionality. This approach enables a more reliable and reliable forward engineering of effective pure RNA-mediated gene expression modulation.
Transient associations among neurons are thought to underlie memory and behavior. However, little is known about how such associations occur or how they can be identified. Here we recorded ongoing local field potential activity at multiple sites within the cortex of awake monkeys and organotypic cultures of cortex. We show that when the composite activity of a local neuronal group exceeds a threshold, its activity pattern, as reflected in the LFP, occurs without distortion at other cortex sites via fast synaptic transmission. Such nonlinear behavior is analogous to the spread of ideas and behaviors in social networks.
Nuclear size correlates with cell size, but the mechanism by which this scaling is achieved is not known. Here we screen fission yeast gene deletion mutants to identify essential factors involved in this process. Our screen has identified 25 essential genes that alter nuclear size and our analysis has implicated RNA processing and LINC complexes in nuclear growth control. This study has revealed lower and more extreme higher nuclear sizes phenotypes and has also identified global cellular processes and specific structural nuclear components important for the control of nuclear population size.
Deep brain stimulation ( DBS ) is an effective treatment for a variety of neurological disorders, including Parkinson’s disease and essential tremor ( ET ). The present generation of the technology involves manually tuning the parameters of stimulation, such as the pulse width, frequency and intensity, in an attempt to achieve the best treatment. A number of approaches have been proposed to deliver stimulation according to the ongoing symptoms or brain activity and have the potential to provide improvements in terms of efficiency, efficacy and reduction of side effects. However, improvements could be achieved if future devices were to operate ‘closed-loop. ’ A useful stepping stone towards this is to construct a mathematical model, which can describe how the brain oscillations should change when stimulation is applied at a particular state. Our work focuses on the use of coupled oscillators to represent neurons in areas generating neuronal activity. We analyse how a patient should respond to stimulation when neural activity has a given phase and amplitude. For such patients, we predict that the optimal stimulation strategy should be phase specific but also that stimulation should have a greater effect if applied when the amplitude is lower. In light of our predictions we propose a new hybrid strategy based on our theories and existing methods found in the literature.
Schistosomiasis remains one of the most common endemic parasitic diseases affecting over 230 million people worlwide. The fresh water snails of genus Biomphalaria act as the parasite´s intermediate host which are able to produce a constant output of hundreds or even thousands of cercariae for months. In addition to health education, safe water supplies, adequate sanitation and environmental management, a snail control program would also reduce transmission of human infection and is necessary for the interruption of snail-to-human transmission in endemic areas.
Dengue is a major public health problem affecting more than half of the world’s population living in tropical and subtropical regions. The disease is estimated to place heavy socio-economic burden on households, health care systems, and governments, particularly during outbreaks. However, country-specific reliable estimates of burden of disease and cost data are limited. We conducted a costing analysis in Colombo district, which is located in the most heavily urbanized Western province in Sri Lanka, during the epidemic year of 2012. Our results indicated a per capita cost of US$0. 42 for dengues control activities and the direct costs of hospitalizations ( 46% ). This analysis is the first attempt to assess the economic burden imposed by the disease on the Sri Lankan health sector.
The relative contributions to modern European populations of Paleolithic hunter-gatherers and Neolithic farmers from the Near East have been intensely debated since the first genetic data became available. Here we show that the geographical distribution of diversity within a Y-chromosomal lineage is best explained by the spread from a single source in Anatolia to the western fringe of Europe. Taken together with the evidence on the origins of many other European haplogroups, this indicates that most European Y chromosomes originate in the expansion of the Y chromosome. This reinterpretation makes Europe a prime example of how technological and cultural change is linked with expansion, and the contrast of this pattern with that shown by maternally inherited mitochondrial DNA suggests a unique role for males.
It has recently been suggested that movement variability directly increases the speed of motor learning. Here we use computational modeling to show that variability can have a broad range of effects on learning, both negative and positive. Experimentally, we also find contributing and decelerating effects. Lastly, through a meta-analysis of published papers, our results confirm that across a wide variety of experiments, motor variability has no statistical relation with learning rate. While motor adaptation studies have found that people appear to efficiently learn from error feedback by taking uncertainty into consideration, further research is needed to understand the relative importance of the involved factors.
The NF-κB family of inducible transcription factors has emerged as a major player in immune response, survival, and proliferation by regulating the transcription of various genes involved in these processes. In vertebrates, the family is comprised of five members, namely RelA ( p65 ), RelB, c-Rel, p50 and p52, which are responsible for DNA binding and its cognate κB sites on the promoter/enhancer regions of DNA. The relA:CBP/p300 complex is composed of two components—first, DNA bound domain of Rela interacts with the KIX domain ( CBP ) and the TAZ1 domain, respectively, in unstimulated THP-1 and HeLa cells. A phosphorylation event is prerequisite for the former interaction to occur and is considered a decisive factor in the overall Rel-A/cBP interaction. Here we provide the solution structure of the latter component of this complex by NMR spectroscopy. Detailed studies of these mutants using cell-based techniques, mathematical modeling and genome-wide gene expression analysis showed that a large set of genes, larger than previously believed, is affected by this interaction, thus indicating a possible role of a conserved transcription factor for recruitment of its target promoter sites.
Gene set analysis methods, which consider predefined groups of genes in the analysis of genomic data, have been successfully applied for analyzing gene expression data in cross-sectional studies. In the present paper, we propose the implementation of a hypothesis driven method that directly tests the time-course significance of pre- and post-ATI gene sets. It relies on the use of linear mixed effect models, a very useful and well established statistical tool. By using all available repeated measures, it provides increased statistical power. The method is made available for the community through an R package.
Plasmodium vivax, the causative agent of malaria, is far less developed than that of falciparum, representing a barrier to rational strategies for control and elimination. Here we present the first systematic effort to map the global endemicity of this hitherto neglected parasite. We first updated to the year 2010 our earlier estimate of the geographical limits of P. vavax transmission. Within areas of stable transmission, an assembly of 9, 970 geopositioned parasite rate surveys collected from 1985 to 2010 were used with a spatiotemporal Bayesian model-based geostatistical approach to estimate endemicities age-standardised within every 5×5 km resolution grid square. Endemicity was predicted within a relatively narrow range throughout the endemic world, with the point estimate rarely exceeding 7% PvPR1–99. Central Asia was home to 82% of global PAR with important high endemic areas coinciding with dense populations particularly in India and Myanmar. South East Asia contained areas where extreme aridity or temperature regimes would limit or preclude transmission in Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. This detailed depiction of spatially varying endemicness is intended to contribute to a much-needed paradigm shift towards geographically stratified and evidence-driven planning for malaria.
Staphylococcus aureus is the leading cause of skin and soft tissue infections ( SSTIs ) in humans and the treatment of these infections has become increasingly difficult due to the emergence of antibiotic resistance. The cell wall-anchored protein clumping factor B ( ClfB ) has previously been shown to facilitate the colonization of host cells and tissues through high affinity interactions with the cornified envelope in the anterior nares. However, the role of this protein during S. skin infection has never been investigated. This study reveals a novel role for this antigen in determining the abscess structure and bacterial burden early in infection and this is dependent upon a specific interaction with loricrin, which is expressed within the tissue. Using a model vaccine that induced both protective humoral and cellular responses, we demonstrate that this vaccine is a good candidate antigen for inclusion in next-generation vaccines.
Pre-exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP ) for high-risk individuals is one of the five ‘pillars’ set by UNAIDS to achieve a drastic reduction in HIV infections. The aim is to reduce the number of new infections to approximately 500, 000 by 2020. However, pre-clinical testing may not guide candidate selection, since it often fails to translate into clinical efficacy. Therefore, quantifying drug efficacy in the clinic is ethically problematic and requires to conduct long ( years ) and large ( N>1000 individuals ) trials. We overcome the aforementioned limitations by building on recent developments for the simulation of stochastic processes, implementing a numerically exact simulation approach to assess drug concentrations ( pharmacokinetics ). Our simulations indicated that oral 50mg DTG is non-inferior to Truvada. Moreover, the predicted 90% preventive concentrations can guide release kinetics of currently developed drug nano-formulations.
Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) is an important human pathogen that can cause severe liver diseases including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. It belongs to the flavivirus family and has a 9. 6 Kb positive-stranded RNA genome. This genome encodes a polyprotein with a length of slightly more than 3, 000 amino acids. Autophagy occurs at a basal level in cells during normal conditions and is important for maintaining cellular homeostasis. In this report, we investigated the mechanism of the induction of Rubicon and UVRAG, which inhibited and stimulated the maturation of autophagosomes in the early time points of viral infection. We found that the expression of both the nonstructural proteins was prompt whereas the suppression of its expression was delayed. The over-expression of UVRA was sufficient to induce the MRA-1 protein and to enhance its replication.
Cyclins comprise a family of highly conserved proteins and exert their crucial roles by activating cyclin-dependent kinases ( CDKs ). The founding members, Cyclin A and B, were discovered to be oscillated in their protein levels during the cell cycle, which is required to activate the Cyclins/CDK1, and consequently regulate transcription and other cellular processes. However, there are also several "orphan" cyclins for which no interacting partners have been yet identified. In this study, we used Ccnyl1 gene disrupted mice and found that the protein, but not the mRNA, level of cycline kinase 16 was decreased in the testis. Further study demonstrated that CCNYL1 is highly expressed on the plasma membrane of spermatocytes and spermatozoa and its deletion leads to impaired motility and defects in sperm structural integrity. Our results therefore reveal a previously unrecognized role of the cyclinc Y-like 1 ( CYCLINYL1 ) in male fertility.
Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) are global causes of diarrhea and hemolytic uremic syndrome resulting from toxin-mediated microvascular endothelial injury in the kidneys and the brain. The toxin is a member of the RTX ( repeats-in-toxin ) family, a family of virulence factors, which plausibly play a role in pathogenesis of HUS. In this study, we demonstrate that the toxin exists as a free, soluble toxin and is associated with outer membrane vesicles ( OMVs ) released during growth. Whereas the free toxin lyses human endothelium, the biological effects of this toxin on the OMV-associated toxin form are unknown. Using microscopic, biochemical, flow cytometry and functional analyses of human brain and intestinal epithelial cells ( HBMEC and Caco-2 cells ) we show that EHMEC-Hly is internalized by the host cells, but separates from its carriers and subsequently targets mitochondria, triggering apoptosis via the intrinsic caspase-9-dependent pathway.
The elongation phase of transcription is a point of regulation for many genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II ( RNAPII ) in eukaryotes, but the precise functions of individual modifications in transcription initiation are poorly understood. Here we reveal bidirectional communication between H2Bub1 and Cdk9, the ortholog of metazoan positive transcription elongating factor b ( P-TEFb ), in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. We show that lowering the activity or preventing phosphorylation of its substrate, Spt5, reduces the transcription processivity factor activity requirement in vivo. Conversely, mutation of the histone H1 ubiquitin-acceptor residue relaxes this balance and leads to deranged gene expression and aberrant cell morphologies, revealing a novel function of a conserved, co-transcriptional chromone modification.
Yellow fever virus ( YFV ) remains the most feared of epidemic diseases from the 15th to 19th centuries, when large scale outbreaks in port cities of North and South America, Africa, and Europe caused devastating mortality and helped to shape the expansion of settlements and colonial powers. To determine the evolutionary history of this important reemerging pathogen, we performed a phylogenetic analysis of the largest viral data set compiled to date, representing the prM/E gene region from 133 viral isolates sampled from 22 countries over a period of 76 years. From these data we estimate that the currently circulating viruses arose in Africa within the last 1, 500 years and emerged in the Americas following the slave trade approximately 300–400 years ago. These viruses then spread westwards across the continent and persist there to this day.
The pathogenesis of bacterial diseases generally involves multiple stages ( entry, establishment, invasion, exit ) that often begin with the colonization of host surfaces. For organisms without an environmental reservoir, their continued success requires proliferation within their obligate host and transmission to new susceptible hosts. In order to better understand the mechanisms responsible for protection, we studied a virulent isolate of the leading bacterial pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae in an infant mouse model of colonization, disease, transmission, both with and without influenza A ( IAV ) co-infection. To identify vulnerable points in the multiple steps involved in pneumococcal infection, this model was utilized for a comprehensive analysis of population bottlenecks. Our findings demonstrate how viral infection drives bacterial contagion and that are required to control it.
Phlebotomus orientalis is a vector of Leishmania donovani, the causative agent of life-threatening visceral leishmaniasis spread in Eastern Africa. During blood-feeding, sand fly females salivate into the skin of the host. Sand fly saliva contains a large variety of proteins, some of which elicit specific antibody responses in the bitten hosts. To evaluate the exposure of human populations from disease endemic areas, we tested the antibody reactions of volunteers' sera against recombinant P. orientis saliveary antigens. Recombinant proteins derived from sequence data on the Salivary gland homogenate ( SGH ) were produced using either bacterial ( five proteins ) or mammalian ( four protein ) expression systems. Combination of both proteins led to a further increase of correlation coefficients as well as both positive and negative predictive values of antibody detection. The utilization of equal amounts of these two proteins significantly increased the capability to detect anti-P. species IgG antibody response.
IncC conjugative plasmids and Salmonella genomic island 1 ( SGI1 ) are frequently associated with multidrug resistance of clinical isolates of pathogenic Enterobacteriaceae, including Gram-negative and most Gram–positive bacteria. In this study, we investigated the role of three genes, traNS and traHGS, coding for distant homologs of the predicted mating pore subunits TraNC, TraHC and TraGC, respectively, encoded by A/C Plasmid. Mating experiments using combinations of deletion mutants and complementation assays confirmed that expression of these genes is inducible by AcaCD. Furthermore, deletion of each individual gene revealed that TraNS/HS/GS replace TraC/HC/GC by replacing TraHS with a putative mating pair stabilization protein named TraGS. Thus, by remodeling the IncC-encoded mating-pore by the helper IncA plasmaid, the resulting hybrid T4SS is able to invade and invade the cell population bearing IncCs.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae polo-like kinase Cdc5 promotes adaptation to the DNA damage checkpoint, in addition to its numerous roles in mitotic progression. In this study, we overexpressed CDC5 from the GAL1 promoter in damaged cells and examined key steps in checkpoint activation individually. We found that the checkpoint steps leading to Rad53 activation, including checkpoint sensor localization, Mec1-phosphorylation of Rad9, and formation of the Rad 9-Rad53 complex, remained mostly unaffected. However, damage-induced hyperpholylation was lost and cells reentered the cell-division cycle. Together, these data suggest that high levels of this protein are conserved in vertebrates.
Many pathological conditions, such as seizures, stroke, and spreading depression, are associated with substantial changes in ion concentrations in the extracellular space ( ECS ) of the brain. Understanding the mechanisms that govern these changes may be a prerequisite for understanding such pathologies. To estimate the transport of ions due to electrodiffusive effects, one must keep track of both the ion concentration and the electric potential simultaneously in all relevant regions. Although this is currently unfeasible experimentally, it is in principle achievable with computational models based on biophysical principles and constraints. In this study, we present the 3-D Kirchhoff-Nernst-Planck ( KNP ) framework, tailored to explore the dynamics of ion-concentration dynamics on a large spatiotemporal scale. By assuming electroneutrality, the framework circumvents charge-relaxation processes on the short timescales of nanometers and nanoseconds. The simulation demonstrates the efficiency of this framework.
A budget proposal to stop the U. S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) funding in surveillance and research for mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus has the potential to leave the country ill-prepared to handle new emerging diseases and manage existing ones. In order to demonstrate the consequences of such a measure, if implemented, we evaluated the impact of delayed control responses ( a likely scenario emerging from the proposed CDC budget cut ) in an economically developed urban environment. Our analysis shows that the total costs of preparedness through surveillance are far lower than the ones needed to respond to the introduction of vector pathogens, even without consideration of the cost in human lives and well-being.
Dengue is an emerging cause of acute febrile illness ( AFI ) worldwide. Dengue virus ( DENV ) with its 4 antigenically distinct serotypes is the most common arbovirus worldwide with an estimated ~400 million symptomatic cases occurring annually in over 100 countries. Since serologic cross-reactions are expected among flaviviruses, epidemiological studies have been facilitated by lack of reports of yellow fever and Japanese encephalitis, a single report of West Nile virus in a traveler from Spain [12], and the introduction of Zika virus only recently. To ascertain the role of the virus as a causative agent, we studied consequtively enrolled patients ≥ 1 year of age who presented with acute fever in semi-urban and rural western Nicaragua, which has a population of ~210, 000 and is located along the Río Chiquito 90 kilometres northwest of Managua and ~ 18 km east of Pacific Ocean. We found 470 ( 63. 5% ) were seropositive at enrollment. Our findings suggest that the population studied is at particular risk for being devastated by the Zika epidemic that has now reached Central America.
Plant-parasitic nematodes are destructive pests causing losses of billions of dollars annually. An effective plant defence against pathogens relies on the recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) by surface-localised receptors. Extensive studies have been conducted to characterise the role of PTI in various models of plant-pathogen interactions. However, far less information is available pertaining to plant–nematode interactions in particular. Here, we show that a plant proteinaceous elicitor/s that is/are recognized by the common immune co-receptor BAK1 is capable of inducing PAMP-triggered immunity in Arabidopsis in a manner dependent on NILR1, a leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase. Consistent with the roles played by this immune receptor in plants and in animals, this is the first example of an innate receptor involved in induction of basal immunity. Manipulation of this receptor will provide new options for control in crop plants in future.
Miltefosine, an anti-cancer drug that has been successfully repositioned for treatment of Leishmania infections, has recently also shown promising effects against Schistosoma spp targeting all life cycle stages of the parasite. In the present study, we evaluated the in vitro effect of treating S. mansoni adult worm homogenate and anti schistomula infection antisera on exposure of worm surface antigens exposed to miltefenosines. We found that these antigenic targets were fructose-1, 6 bisphosphate aldolase ( SmFBPA ), Sm22. 6, alkaline phosphatase and malate dehydrogenase. These antibodies were also found to bind to the surface of 3-hour worm tegument and induce immune agglutination, suggesting they may have a role in immune protection.
In host-pathogen interactions, the struggle for iron may have major consequences on the outcome of the disease. To overcome the low solubility and bio-availability of iron, bacteria have evolved multiple systems to acquire iron from various sources such as heme, hemoglobin and ferritin. In the human opportunistic pathogen Bacillus cereus, a surface protein named IlsA ( Iron-regulated surface determinant ) is involved in iron acquisition from host iron. Here, we demonstrate that a bacterial protein acts as a receptor to bind to the iron iron core. We propose a new model for the binding of IlA to iron and siderophore assisted iron uptake. Our results highlight a possible interplay between surface proteins and the host and provide new insights into host adaptation of B. cerealus and general bacterial pathogenesis.
Circadian clocks, which allow organisms to anticipate changes in day and night, are a fascinating example of biological rhythms. One of the most studied and best characterized models of circadian oscillations is the cyanobacterium S. elongatus. It is now known that it combines a protein synthesis cycle with a phosphorylation cycle, and in 2005 the latter was reconstituted in the test tube. Yet, it has remained an open question how the clock is driven thermodynamically. Here, we present a new mathematical model, based on ideas from previous mathematical models. At its heart are two main ideas: i ) ATP hydrolysis in CI provides the thermodynamic driving force for the circadian clock, switching KaiC between an active conformational state in which its phosphate levels tend to rise and an inactive one, where it tends to fall; ii ) the slow binding of KaiB to the CI domain stabilizes this state further, thereby stabilizing it further. The model also naturally explains how KaiA, by acting as a nucleotide exchange factor, can stimulate the sequestration and the release of ADP from CI. In the inactive state, the neutralization of this neutral state leads to a switch between the active and inactive conformations. We show that the model can describe a wealth of experimental data.
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is a major public health burden associated with about 600, 000 deaths annually and 350 million chronic carriers worldwide. Mitochondria serve as a platform for innate immune signaling and play indispensable role in cellular antiviral defense. In this study, we explored the role of parkin, a cytosolic RBR ubiquitin ligase protein linked with Parkinson’s disease, in mitochondria-mediated innate immunity signaling. Parkin interacts with MAVS and recruits the linear ubiquitsin assembly complex ( LUBAC ) to the mitochondrial membrane protein and abrogates interferon-αβ ( IFN ) synthesis. This study highlights the novel mechanism ( s ) by which a mitochondrial protein, PARKIN, is able to interfere with the cellular immune response.
T-cell receptors ( TCRs ) typically recognize antigens in the form of peptides or peptide-lipids bound to major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) molecules. A novel enteric T cell superantigen, Pseudomonas fluorescens, is encoded by a bacterial gene associated with Crohn's disease ( CD ). The I2 protein pfiT was identified as a genomic element of a novel bacterial protein that was selectively detected in active CD lesional colonic tissue, but not in healthy controls or inactive CD ileum. Serum antibody studies revealed that IgA seroreactivity to a recombinant HLA-DR1 protein was CD specific. In order to identify human receptors responsible for the interaction of pfT and its homolog, PA2885, with the human class II mHC protein, we performed a competition GST immunoprecipitation assay to determine the binding sites of the two proteins. We show that the distinct structure of GST-pfiTs indicates that it belongs to the TetR-family of DNA-binding transcription regulators.
Nanog is a principal pluripotency regulator exhibiting a disperse distribution within stem cell populations in vivo and in vitro. Allelic control of Nanog expression was reported recently in mouse embryonic stem cells. To better understand how this mode of regulation influences the observed heterogeneity of NANOG, we assembled a multiscale stochastic population balance equation ( PBE ) framework to investigate how the recently discovered regulation of allelic expression of the gene is sufficient to give rise to a multimodal distribution of nanog in a stem-cell ensemble even in the absence of transcriptional noise. Pitfalls stemming from the use of cell lines carrying a reporter gene in one or both alleles are demonstrated indicating the value of this framework as a tool aiding in interpreting the data from such experiments.
The costs and benefits of protein synthesis on organismal fitness are balanced through evolution. Expression of un-utilized protein ( that have no benefits in the current environment ) incurs a quantifiable fitness costs on cellular growth rates; however, the magnitude and variability of unused protein expression in natural settings is unknown, largely due to the challenge in determining environment-specific proteome activity. We address this challenge using absolute and global proteomics data combined with a recently developed genome-scale model of Escherichia coli. This approach allows us to enumerate the amount of the microbial protein that is unused in certain environments and to characterize the processes and regulators underlying the change in unused expression across environments. In turn, we show that this change is the source of large and pervasive fitness cost that may provide the benefit of hedging against environmental change.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2D ) is a major chronic disease that affects more than 300 million people worldwide. The greatest increase in the prevalence of this disease is likely to be in Asia, home to half of the world's population with 3 billion people. Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have identified a number of novel loci harboring common variants that are associated with an increased risk of type 2D. However, these studies have been conducted in populations of European descent, and these multi-ethnic cohorts serve to assess the transferability and relevance of previous findings from Europe and Asia. In addition to the search for novel genetic variants implicated in this pathogenesis, we also examined the genetic architecture of these previously established regions. We found evidence of locus and allelic heterogeneity in relation to these regions in our study and in those carried out in European populations. These findings highlight the value of surveying across diverse racial/ethnic groups towards the fine-mapping efforts for the casual variants and also of searching for variants, which may be population-specific.
High-fidelity chromosome segregation ensures faithful transmission of genetic material to subsequent generations. This process is powered by the dynamic interactions of the centromere-kinetochore complex and the mitotic spindle. Microtubule organizing centers ( MTOCs ), microtubules fibers, and molecular motors contribute to the proper positioning and movement of cytoplasmic MTs. Among the plethora of +TIPs, Bim1, the EB1 homolog in yeast, localizes at the distal ends of cMTs and establishes contacts with the cortical polarity determinant Kar9 and guides the plus-ends along the cortex actin cables for penetration into the budding daughter cell. In contrast, dynein molecules are transported from the less dynamic minus-end towards the top of mts as cells progress towards mitosis in C. neoformans. Together, our results uncover a distinct mechanism leading to atypical nuclear division in a basidiomycete yeast.
Synonymous mutations continue to be filtered out from most large-scale cancer genome studies, but several lines of evidence suggest they can play driver roles in neoplastic disease. We investigated a case of an aggressive, apparently sporadic medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) harboring a somatic RET p. Cys634Arg mutation. A germ-line RET substitution had also been found but was considered clinically irrelevant because of its synonymous nature. Next generation sequencing ( NGS ) of the tumor tissues revealed that the RET mutations were in cis, and subsequent experiments demonstrated that it exerted appreciable effects on RET pre-mRNA splicing. These findings document a novel mechanism by which synonymous mutations can contribute to cancer progression.
Metagenomic sequencing of patient samples is a very promising method for the diagnosis of human infections. Sequencing has the ability to capture all the DNA or RNA from pathogenic organisms in a human sample. However, complete and accurate characterization of the sequence, including identification of any pathogens, depends on the availability and quality of genomes for comparison. In this study, we have developed a bioinformatics system for eliminating contamination as well as low-complexity genomic sequences in the draft genomes of eukaryotic pathogens. We applied this software to identify and remove human, bacterial, archaeal, viral, and viral sequences from a comprehensive database of all genomes sequenced by EuPathDB, a database representing more than 250 known pathogens and other closely related non-infectious species.
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) remains a major health problem on the continent of Africa. There are recurrent sporadic outbreaks in the traditionally endemic areas in south-east Uganda, and continued spread to new unaffected areas. We evaluated the evolutionary dynamics underpinning the origin of new foci and the impact of host species on parasite genetic diversity in Uganda and southwestern Kenya in order to understand the extent of genetic exchange both within and between T. b. brucei ( Tbb ) strains of different genetic backgrounds and to investigate the importance of cattle as Tbr reservoir, as confounders that shape the epidemiology of sleeping sickness in this region.
Thioredoxin-interacting protein ( TXNIP ) has multiple functions, including tumor suppression and involvement in cell proliferation and apoptosis. However, its role in the inflammatory process remains unclear. In this report, we demonstrate that Txnip−/− macrophages are significantly more susceptible to lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced endotoxic shock than wild-type mice. This susceptibility phenotype is due to increased S-nitrosylation of NLRP3, a key mediator of IL-1β-induced death. Furthermore, the inhibition of NO release by iNOS inhibitors reduced the increased sensitivity of mice to endotoxin shock induced death, demonstrating that NO is a major factor in TLR-mediated endotoxidative shock.
Germline mutations in DNA repair genes are linked to tumor progression. Furthermore, failure in either activating a DNA damage checkpoint or repairing programmed meiotic double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) can impair chromosome segregation. Therefore, understanding the molecular basis for DNA replication response ( DDR ) and repair ( DSBR ) within the germline is of extreme importance. Here we define ZTF-8, a previously uncharacterized protein conserved from worms to humans, as a novel factor involved in the repair of both mitotic and dSB breaks as well as in dsBR activation in C. elegans. We show that the protein is required for repair at stalled replication forks, and for meiosis repair via the 9-1/p53-dependent DNA checkpoint pathway. This is further supported by the interaction of the human RHINO protein, which rescues the phenotypes observed in ztf-eight mutants, suggesting functional conservation across species.
During tissue development, multipotent progenitors differentiate into specific cell types in characteristic spatial and temporal patterns. We addressed the mechanism linking motor neuron ( MN ) identity and differentiation rate in the neural tube. Using single cell transcriptomics, we defined the transcriptional changes associated with the transition of neural progensitors into MNs. Reconstruction of gene expression dynamics from these data indicate that Olig2 represses expression of the Notch signaling pathway effectors Hes1 and Hes5. This repression appears to be direct, via a conserved regulatory element within the Hes3 locus that restricts expression from MN progeny. These findings reveal a tight coupling between the regulatory networks that control patterning and neuronal differentiation and demonstrate how the developmental pacemaker coordinating the temporal and spatial pattern of MN generation.
In mouse models of influenza, T cells can confer broad protection against multiple viral subtypes when antibodies raised against a single subtype fail to do so. Here we use a translational nonhuman primate model to show that cross-reactive T cell responses play an important role in early clearance of infection with 2009 pandemic H1N1 influenza virus. To “prime” cellular immunity, we first infected 5 rhesus macaques with a seasonal human influenza isolate. These animals made detectable cellular and antibody responses against the seasonal isolate but had no neutralizing antibodies. Four months later we challenged these animals to demonstrate that these responses were indeed elicited by virus-specific responses. Strikingly, the virus–specific response peaked earlier and reached a higher magnitude than the naive animals did. This response involved both CD4+ and CD8+ cells. Our results suggest that vaccines capable of stimulating such responses could help protect humans against future influenza pandemics, when pre-existing antibodies are not likely to be effective.
Q fever is the most widespread zoonosis that is caused by Coxiella burnetii. It is not only difficult to distinguish from other febrile diseases because of the lack of specific clinical manifestations in humans, but it is also hard to identify the disease in animals. Conventional serodiagnosis requires sera from the acute and convalescent stages of infection, which are unavailable at early diagnosis. Nested PCR and real-time PCR require equipment. In this study, we developed a Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification ( LAMP ) assay to detect the repeated sequence IS1111a of HtpAB gene. The sensitivity was evaluated using known quantities of recombined reference plasmids containing the targeted genes and its specificity was 100%, and no cross-reaction was observed among the bacteria used in the study.
Cancer cells often display gene expression profiles resembling those of undifferentiated cells. The mechanisms controlling these expression programs have yet to be identified. Exploring transcriptional enhancers throughout hematopoietic cell development and derived cancers, we uncovered a novel class of regulatory epigenetic mutations. These epimutations are particularly enriched in a group of ES-specific enhancer ( ESSEs ), which are specific to certain tissues or cell types. We found that HEMSES are prone to DNA methylation changes, indicative of their chromatin activity states in cancer. Strikingly, these changes are associated with the expression levels of silenced genes, and thus may provide a basis for the reactivation of the ES genes.
Natural selection drives populations towards higher fitness ( i. e. reproductive success ), but crossing fitness valleys or plateaus may facilitate progress up a rugged fitness landscape involving epistasis. In this work, we investigate quantitatively the effect of subdividing an asexual population on the time it takes to cross a fitness valley or plateau. We focus on a generic and minimal model that includes only population subdivision into equivalent demes connected by global migration, and does not require significant size changes of the deme, environmental heterogeneity or specific geographic structure. Our analytical predictions are verified through stochastic simulations. Using Markov chain theory we obtain analytical expressions for the conditions under which optimal speedup is achieved: the rate at which a population divides by a metapopulation is then as fast as that of its fastest population.
Aedes aegypti is the primary mosquito vector for dengue, Zika, chikungunya and yellow fever viruses. Transmission of these viruses depends on their ability to infect, replicate and disseminate from several mosquito tissues. The metabolic environments within these tissues play crucial roles in these processes. Since the virus is enveloped, viral replication, assembly and release occur on cellular membranes primed through the manipulation of host metabolism. Interference with this virus infection-induced metabolic environment is detrimental to virus replication in human and mosquito cell culture models. Here we present the first comprehensive analysis of metabolic changes induced during arbovirus replication. Using high-resolution mass spectrometry, we have analyzed the temporal metabolic perturbations that occur following viral infection of the mosquito midgut tissue. We identified metabolites that exhibited a dynamic-profile across early-, mid- and late-infection time points. A central hub in the sphingolipid pathway that influenced dihydroceramide to ceramide ratios was identified as critical for virus life cycle. This study also resulted in a detailed reconstruction of a key metabolic pathway in this vector. Our results highlight biochemical choke points that could be targeted to disrupt transmission of multiple pathogens by these mosquitoes.
The simulation of action potentials ( APs ) and their propagation has been an integral part of the field of electrophysiology for over half a century. These “ionic” models have been derived almost exclusively from voltage clamp data from a variety of species, often recorded under conditions that are not physiological. Existing models are complex ( resulting in over parameterization ), and varied ( leading to dissimilar predictions ). In this paper, we develop a simple and parsimonious rabbit AP model that is mathematically identifiable ( i. e., not under parameterized ) by combining a novel Hodgkin-Huxley formulation of INa with a phenomenological model of repolarization similar to the voltage dependent, time-independent rectifying outward potassium current ( IK ) that was derived from experiments from chick embryo cell aggregates. Simulations were calibrated using the following experimental data sets measured from the same species ( rabbit ) under physiological conditions: dynamic current-voltage relationships during the AP upstroke; rapid recovery of AP excitability in the relative refractory period; and steady-state Ina inactivation via voltage-clamp. Model variants were studied which elucidated the minimal requirements for alternans and spiral wave break up, namely the kinetics and non-linear rectification of iK. The simplicity and the fact that its parameters have physiological meaning, make it ideal for engendering generalizable mechanistic insight.
During the sexual cycle of Paramecium, assembly of the somatic genome includes the precise excision of tens of thousands of short, non-coding germline sequences ( Internal Eliminated Sequences or IESs ), each one flanked by two TA dinucleotides. It has been reported previously that these genome rearrangements are initiated by the introduction of developmentally programmed DNA double-strand breaks, which depend on the domesticated transposase PiggyMac. These DSBs all exhibit a characteristic geometry, with 4-base 5′ overhangs centered on conserved TA, and may readily align and undergo ligation with minimal processing. However, the molecular steps and actors involved in the final and precise assembly are unknown. We demonstrate here that Ligase IV and Xrcc4p, core components of NHEJ, are required both for the repair and circularization of excised DNA ends, respectively. At the nucleotide level, controlled removal of either gene occurs normally in LIG4-silenced cells, while nucleotis addition to the 3′ ends of breaks is blocked, together with a final joining step. Taken together, our data indicate that the remarkable precision in end joining is largely driven by its characteristic structure.
Sudden death has been considered the main cause of death in patients with Chagas heart disease. Nevertheless, this information comes from a period before the introduction of drugs that changed the natural history of heart failure. Therefore, we sought to study the mode of mortality of patients in the REMADHE ( Repetitive Education at Six-Month Interventions ) trial. The primary end-point was all-cause death and sudden death mortality; 342 patients were analyzed and 185 ( 54. 1% ) died. Death occurred in 56. 4% Chags patients and 53. 7% non-ChagAS patients. In the Cox regression model, cardiac etiology, LVEDD ( left ventricular end diastolic diameter ), creatinine clearance ( HR 1. 04–1. 10; p<0. 001 ) and use of beta-blocker were independently associated with cardiac death. These data challenge the current understanding of the disease and may influence the development of new strategies for prevention of cardiac failure, which should be strongly pursued.
Geminiviruses constitute a large group of plant viruses with single-stranded DNA genomes that may be organized either in single or double-component configuration. However, the NSP–NSP interaction does not fit into the elicitor–receptor model of resistance, and hence the molecular mechanism that links this antiviral response to receptor activation remains obscure. Here, we identified a ribosomal protein, rpL10A, as a specific partner and substrate of NIK1 that functions as an immediate downstream effector of nuclear relocalization of the protein to the nucleus. Phosphorylation of cytosolic protein by nuclear receptor-like kinase 1 redirects the proteolytic traffic of viral DNA and cooperates with the plant hormone receptor BRI1 and the resistance gene FLS2. We also provide evidence that loss of this function enhances susceptibility to infection by a coat protein-less mutant of Cabbage leaf curl virus ( CaLCuV ). Although the virulence function of Arabidopsis is the same as that of nik1 null alleles, our study provides both genetic and biochemical evidence suggesting that the nuclear shuttle protein plays a critical role in a defense strategy to restrict the host range of other viruses.
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is a thermal dimorphic pathogenic fungus that at environmental temperature grows as a mold producing conidia ( the infectious particle ). Once inhaled by the host, these fungal cells reach the lung alveoli were they interact with epithelial cells. At 37°C the transition to the redox balancing process is initiated. In this study, we have evaluated the role of alternative oxidase ( AOX ), an enzyme involved in the intracellular oxidation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) during host-pathogen interaction. We generated a mitotically stable ( PbAOX-antisense ) antisense RNA ( aRNA ) strain with a 70% reduction in gene expression. Our results show that the effect of an alternative respiratory chain is important for the virulence of this human pathogen.
The rodent hippocampus forms a neural representation of the local environment using a dual rate and position code: Each pyramidal neuron is active when an animal is located within a distinct location in space, and its mean firing rate within this location varies with contextual features like the color or shape of enclosing walls. A possible neural substrate for this memory mechanism is rate remapping, in which the spatial map of place cells encodes contextual information through firing rates variability. To test whether memories are stored as multimodal attractors in populations of places cells, recent experiments morphed one familiar context into another while observing the responses of CA3 cell ensembles. Average population activity was reported to transition gradually rather than abruptly from one unfamiliar context to the next, suggesting a lack of attractive forces associated with the two stored representations. On the other hand, individual cells showed a mix of gradual and abrupt transitions at different points along the morph sequence. Smooth transition curves arose from averaging across the population, while a heterogeneous set of responses was observed on the single unit level. These results suggest that context-dependent memory can be supported by overlapping local attractor dynamics in the hippocampus. Similar mechanisms may also be found in other brain regions.
Entamoeba histolytica is a microaerophilic enteric protozoan parasite that causes amebic colitis and extra intestinal abscesses in millions of inhabitants of endemic areas. It is now well established that most microbial and higher eukaryotic cells have the ability to cope with oxidative stress by altering global expression of antioxidants and other metabolic enzyme encoding genes at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. However, it is becoming increasingly acceptable that post–translational mechanisms are also important players of cellular responses to oxidative stresses. In the present study, we investigated global metabolic responses in E. chromolytic trophozoites in response to H2O2- and paraquat-mediated oxidation of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species ( ROS and RNS ) by measuring charged metabolites on capillary electrophoresis and time-of-flight mass spectrometry in order to get insight into the dynamics of metabolic changes employed either to bypass damaged enzymes or to support adaptive responses. Oxidative stress resulted in the inhibition of glycolysis as a result of inactivation of several key enzymes, leading to the redirection of metabolism towards glycerol production, chitin biosynthesis, and the non-oxidatively branch of the pentose phosphate pathway. We also showed for the first time the presence of functional glyclytic intermediates upstream of pyruvate and reduced ethanol production. Our results highlight the importance of this pathway in regulating observed metabolomic changes.
The tumor suppressor IKAROS is a transcription factor critical for hematopoietic cell fate and its dynamic expression pattern is required for proper differentiation. In collaboration with the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase ( NuRD ) complex, it promotes gene repression and activation. It remains to be clarified how this protein association is important for Cdk9/P-TEFb activation and thus, transcription elongation. Here, we demonstrate that the expression level of the Nu RD complex can be recruited to specific genes and that this complex is assembled in a multifunctional protein complex. We show that a mutant that is unable to bind PP1α cannot sustain gene expression and impedes normal differentiation of Ikaros null mutation ( IkNULL ). Finally, the knock-down of this subunit Mi2 reveals that it is necessary to activate the POL II promoter-proximal pausing complex at transcribed regions of genes.
Bat rabies is an emerging disease of public health significance in the Americas. The Caribbean island of Trinidad experiences periodic outbreaks within the livestock population. We performed a Bayesian phylogenetic analysis to investigate the extent to which outbreaks are a result of in situ evolution versus importation of virus from the nearby South American mainland. Trinidadian RABV sequences were confirmed as bat variant and clustered with Desmodus rotundus ( vampire bat ) related sequences. They fell into two largely temporally defined lineages designated Trinidad I and IIa, which included sequences from 1997–2000, all but two of which were from Brazil ( 1999, 2004 ) and Uruguay ( 2007, 2008 ). Phylogeographic analyses support three separate RabV introductions from Trinidad and four separate lineage expansions. These data also indicate periods of evolution within Trinidad following each introduction.
The mammalian cerebral cortex is divided into many functionally distinct areas. The emergence of these areas during neural development is dependent on the expression patterns of several genes. Along the anterior-posterior axis, gradients of Fgf8, Emx2, Pax6, Coup-tfi and Sp8 play a particularly strong role in specifying areal identity. However, our understanding of the regulatory interactions between these genes that lead to their confinement to particular spatial patterns is currently qualitative and incomplete. We therefore used a computational model of all possible networks created by different combinations of interactions to determine which interactions are most likely to be present in the gene network regulating cortical area development. From this analysis, we identify structural elements common to the best performing networks, as well as elements that never appear in networks that perform well. These results reveal important logical principles underlying the cortical network, and suggest potential directions for future experimental investigations.
Polycomb group ( PcG ) proteins control organism development by regulating the expression of developmental genes. Transcriptional regulation is achieved, at least partly, through the PRC2-mediated methylation on lysine 27 of histone H2A ( H3K27 ), as well as by the ubiquitylation of the methyl-DNA binding protein, Bmi1. Although recent studies have revealed the genome-wide binding patterns of some of these proteins, there have been no reports describing the genomic localization of this mark. Using the recently developed ChIP-Seq technology, here, we report genomewide localization and enrichment of a mark that is enriched at high-density CpG promoters, including almost 700 gene promoters. Genes with promoter peaks of uH2a exhibit lower-level expression when compared to genes that do not contain the peak of h3k27me3. Moreover, our work not only reveals the importance of H1A targeting in differentiated cells, but also suggests a different mechanism from that in ES cells.
Pregnancy-induced noncoding RNA ( PINC ) and retinoblastoma-associated protein 46 ( RbAp46 ) are upregulated in alveolar cells of the mammary gland during pregnancy and persist in the regressed lobules following involution. However, it is unknown whether they are involved in maintaining this progenitor population. In the present study, we show that mPINC is enriched in luminal cells and that expression levels are significantly decreased during the transition from late pregnancy to early lactation. We also demonstrate that overexpression of pINC blocks lactogenic differentiation, while knockdown enhances differentiation. Finally, our data suggest that a PRC2 complex that includes both pinnipotent and involuting cells may provide the epigenetic modifications that maintain a population of mammory epithelial cells committed to a terminal secretory fate.
Intrinsic immunity constitutes the first line of defense against viral infection, as it relies on cellular proteins, known as restriction factors, to directly counteract viral replication. TRIM5α is one of these factors. It was originally identified as the protein responsible for HIV-1 restriction in rhesus macaque cells. However, it was later found to constitute a species-specific barrier to various retroviruses in other primates, including humans. In this study, we re-evaluated the involvement of PML during HIV infection and provide new insight into its involvement in retroviral restriction. We show that the appearance of cytoplasmic PML ( Promyelocytic Leukemia protein ) is associated with the presence of a well-characterized partner, Daxx, which is found in the vicinity of incoming HIV capsids and inhibits reverse-transcription. Importantly, our study shows that DAXx not only interferes with an early step of HIV replication but can also inhibit retrotransposition of endogenous viruses. Altogether, these findings unravel a novel antiviral function for the PRL-TRIM19 family of proteins.
Protein structure alignment programs are designed to help better model protein structures in a variety of contexts. One approach used by many previous methods is aligned fragment pair chaining, where short structural fragments from all the proteins are aligned against each other optimally, and the final alignment chains these together in geometrically consistent ways. Here, we introduce the program Matt ( Multiple Alignment with Translations and Twists ), an algorithm that, in intermediate steps, allows local flexibility between fragments: small translations and rotations are temporarily allowed to bring sets of aligned fragments closer, even if they are physically impossible under rigid body transformations. After a dynamic programming assembly guided by these “bent” alignments, geometric consistency is restored. Matt is tested against other recent multiple protein structure aligning programs on the popular Homstrad and SABmark benchmark datasets. We postulate that Matt's strong performance comes from its ability to model proteins in different conformational states and, perhaps even more important, it can model backbone distortions in more distantly related proteins.
Entry into mitosis is triggered by the activation of Cdk1 and inactivation of its counteracting phosphatase PP2A/B55. Both Greatwall and Ensa/ARPP19 are regulated by phosphorylation, but how the dynamic regulation of GreatWall activity and the phosphatsases that control it and its substrates are poorly understood. To address these questions we applied a combination of mathematical modelling and experiments using phospho-specific antibodies. We demonstrate that the G2/M transition has multiple positive circuits ( positive and double-negative feedback loops ) including the antagonism between the two proteins, which are locked in a complex feedback system of cell cycle control.
The current AIDS pandemic is the result of genetically diverse viral subtypes and circulating recombinant forms ( CRFs ) of HIV-1, which account for a majority of infections worldwide. One aim for an HIV vaccine is to elicit neutralizing antibodies ( Nab ) that can limit replication and prevent establishment of a new infection. Thus, identifying the strengths and weaknesses of Nab during the early stages of natural infection could prove useful in achieving this goal. Here we demonstrate that viral escape readily occurred despite the development of high titer autologous Nab in two subjects with acute/early subtype C infection, and that Nab escape was driven predominantly by changes in the region of envelope ( Env ) glycoprotein gp120 that extends from the beginning of the V3 domain to the end of V5 domain. However, the escape pathways in this subject oscillated and at times required cooperation between V1V2 and the gp41 ectodomain. These findings argue that a single mutational pathway is not sufficient to confer escape in early sub type C viral infection and support a model in which multiple strategies, including potential glycan shifts, direct alteration of an epitope sequence, conformational masking, are used to evade neutralization.
The extent to which both positive and negative selection vary across different portions of the genome has wide-ranging implications for understanding genome function and the maintenance of genetic variation. Here, we sequenced whole genomes of 13 Capsella grandiflora individuals and quantify the amount of selection across their genomes. We find that selection is strong in coding regions but weak in most noncoding regions, with the exception of 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ). However, estimates of positive selection are strong across the Brassicaceae family, and we find reductions in neutral diversity around functional substitutions in both coding and conserved sites, indicating recent selective sweeps at these sites. Finally, using expression data from leaf tissue we show that genes that are more highly expressed experience stronger negative ( α ) but comparable levels of purifying selection to lowly expressed genes. Overall, our results suggest that both positives and negatives selection drive differences in rates of molecular evolution.
Epstein-Barr Virus ( EBV ) is a human tumor virus associated with various lymphoid and epithelial cell malignancies, including Burkitt’s lymphoma, nasopharyngeal carcinomas, and lymphoproliferative disorders in the immunosuppressed. In this study, we investigate how a viral-encoded non-DNA binding coactivator, EBNA2, can reprogram the target binding sites and functional cooperativity of two master regulators of B-cell fate, EBF1 and RBP-jκ. Previous studies suggest that these transcription factors are statically bound to target gene promoters. Here we show that the co-localization of these master regulatory transcriptional factors leads to the formation of new binding for both EBNF1-RBP-Jκ, many of which are in close physical proximity to each other in cell-type dependent manners. We also found that this cooperative assembly of the two transcription factor-regulated genes correlates strongly with the activation of linked genes that are important for the development and survival of EBN2. These findings provide evidence for cooperative assembly at these sites in a genome-wide context.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti is the main mosquito vector of the four serotypes of dengue virus ( DENV ). Previous population genetic and vector competence studies have demonstrated substantial genetic structure and major differences in the ability to transmit the virus in a mosquito population in Mexico. Population genetic studies revealed that the Neovolcanic axis ( NVA ) with the Gulf of Mexico coast acts as a discrete barrier to gene flow. The mosquito populations in southern Veracruz State were genetically differentiated from the Yucatan and Pacific Coast mosquitoes. In contrast, mosquitoes from populations from south of this axis also differed in their mosquito competence ( VC ), which is related to a midgut infection barrier ( MIB ) and escape barriers ( MEB ) in mosquitoes with uninfected guts. Most of these variation was attributable to the presence of mosquito-borne viruses in mosquito blood. Barriers to vector populations may also impact the frequency of genes that condition continuous and epidemiologically relevant traits such as gene competence.
The bacterial replication cycle is driven by the DnaA protein, which cycles between the active ATP-bound form and the inactive ADP-binding form. Initiation is thought to occur when enough ATP has accumulated. In this work we have performed cell cycle analysis of cells that contain a surplus of ATP and asked whether initiation then occurs earlier. It does not. Cells with more than a 50% increase in the concentration of the protein showed no changes in timing of replication. We also investigated the in vivo roles of datA dependent DNAA inactivation ( DDAH ) and DiaA. The result indicates that although ATP is the main actor in replication, its accumulation not control the time of initiation. This argues that the motor that drives the initiation process, but other factors will be required for the exact timing in response to the cell’s environment.
Oscillatory activity plays a critical role in regulating biological processes at levels ranging from subcellular, cellular, and network to the whole organism. We shed light on this issue by introducing a novel approach called partial Granger causality to reliably reveal interaction patterns in multivariate data with exogenous inputs and latent variables in the frequency domain. The method is extensively tested with toy models and successfully applied to experimental datasets, including ( 1 ) gene microarray data of HeLa cell cycle; ( 2 ) in vivo multi-electrode array ( MEA ) local field potentials ( LFPs ) recorded from the inferotemporal cortex of a sheep; and ( 3 ) a macaque monkey.
Inferring the ancestry at each locus in the genome of recently admixed individuals ( e. g., Latino Americans ) plays a major role in medical and population genetic inferences, ranging from finding disease-risk loci, to inferring recombination rates. Although many methods for local ancestry inference have been proposed, most are designed for use with genotyping arrays and fail to make use of the full spectrum of data available from sequencing. This is particularly important as current haplotype-based approaches are very computationally demanding, requiring large computational time for moderately large sample sizes. Here we present a new approach that leverage continent-specific variants ( CSVs ) to attain increased performance over existing approaches in sequenced admixture genomes. A key feature of our approach is that it incorporates the genomes themselves jointly with public datasets, such as 1000 Genomes, in order to improve the accuracy of CSV calling. We use simulations to show that our method attains accuracy similar to widely used and highly efficient methods with large decreases in runtime.
In mammals, circadian periodicity has been described for gene expression in the hypothalamus and multiple peripheral tissues. It is accepted that 10%–15% of all genes oscillate in a daily rhythm, regulated by an intrinsic molecular clock. However, statistical analyses of this rhythm are limited by the small size of datasets and high levels of stochastic noise. Here, we propose a new approach applying digital signal processing algorithms separately to each group of genes. Combined with the statistical tests for time series, this method identifies circadian baseline oscillation in almost 100%. This method should be evaluated in any study related to biological pathways.
Recombination is intimately related to the evolution of sexual reproduction and therefore constitutes a key process in evolutionary biology and genetics. While the outcome of crossover recombination can readily be detected as shuffled alleles by following the inheritance of markers in pedigreed families, the more precise location of both crossover and non-crossover events has been difficult to pinpoint. As a consequence, we lack a detailed portrait of the recombinating landscape for most organisms and knowledge on how this landscape impacts on sequence evolution at a local scale. We performed whole-genome re-sequencing at high resolution in an avian system, where we identified 325 crossovers at the median resolution of 1. 4 kb, with 86% of these events localized to <10 kb intervals. Observed crossover rates were in excellent agreement with data from linkage mapping, were 52% higher in male ( 3. 56 cM/Mb ) than in female meiosis, and increased towards chromosome ends in both male but not female Meiosis. Crossover rates are low towards the ends of chromosomes, indicating that GC-biased gene conversion is a widespread and likely ancestral mechanism. The approach taken in this study should be applicable to any species and would thereby help to provide a more comprehensive portray of genome diversity across organism groups.
Many proteins are nearly periodic. Instead of being formed by random amino acid sequences, repeat-proteins are made up of tandem arrays of similar stretches, usually between 20 and 40 amino acids in length. In ‘physiological’ conditions, these polypeptides fold up into elongated architectures of repeating structural motifs that stack one upon the next producing extended superhelical structures. These non-globular folds are stabilized only by interactions within each repeat or between adjacent repeats, but that lack contacts between residues distant in sequence. The inherent symmetries both in primary sequence and three-dimensional structure are reflected in a folding landscape that may be analyzed as a quasi–one–dimensional problem. We present a general description of the folding properties of a family of tetratricopeptide ( TPR ) repeat proteins and quantitatively relate the results to the experimentally observed folding transitions. Based on the dramatic effect that single point mutations exert, we speculate that natural repeats are “poised” at particular ratios of inter- and intra-element interaction energetics that allow them to readily undergo structural transitions in physiologically relevant conditions.
Viral hepatitis, obesity, and alcoholism all represent major risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ). Although these conditions also lead to integrated stress response ( ISR ) activation, the extent to which these stress pathways influence the pathogenesis of the disease has not been tested. Here we provide multiple lines of evidence demonstrating that the transcription factor CHOP promotes liver cancer and two mouse models thereof. Chop-null mice are resistant to chemical hepatocarcinogenesis and these mice exhibit attenuation of both apoptosis and cellular proliferation and fibrosis, which is a key risk factor for liver disease. Global gene expression profiling suggests that deletion of CHop reduces the levels of basal inflammatory signaling in the liver. Our results are consistent with a model whereby CHOC contributes to hepatic carcinogenesis by promoting inflammation, fibrotic proliferation, cell death and compensatory proliferation. They implicate CHOS as a common contributing factor in a variety of chronic liver diseases.
Leishmania aethiopica is the etiological agent of cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) in Ethiopia and can cause severe and complicated cases such as diffuse CL ( DCL ), mucocutaneous CL or extensive CL, requiring systemic treatment. Despite the substantial burden, evidence-based treatment guidelines are lacking. We conducted a systematic review of clinical studies reporting on treatment outcomes in humans of drug treatment of CL due to L braziliensis in order to help identify potentially efficacious medications on CL that can be taken forward for clinical trials. The most commonly used drugs were antimonials, pentamidine ( n = 201 ) and cryotherapy. There were 20 case reports/series, with an overall poor study quality. Data on miltefosine, paromomycin and liposomal amphotericin B are extremely scarce. Most importantly, alternative first line treatments are urgently needed, exploring group sequential methods to evaluate several options in parallel.
Circadian clocks are self-sustained biochemical oscillators that underlie daily rhythms of sleep/waking, metabolic activity, gene expression, and many other biological processes. These properties are difficult to explain by known biochemical reactions. We are analyzing the molecular components of the biological clock in the simplest cells that are known to exhibit circadian phenomena, the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus, in which genetic and biochemical studies have identified three key clock proteins. The atomic structures of these proteins have been determined, including their temperature-compensation property. This in vitro oscillator is the best available system for structural and biophysical analyses of a circadian clockwork.
It is well known that even under identical task conditions, there is a tremendous amount of trial-to-trial variability in both brain activity and behavioral output. Thus far, the vast majority of event-related potential ( ERP ) studies investigating the relationship between trials and activity have only tested a monotonic relationship. However, it was recently found that across time variability can correlate with behavioral performance independent of trials. This finding predicts a U- or inverted-U shaped relationship, depending on whether larger brain variability is associated with better or worse behavior, respectively. Using electrocorticography ( ECoG ) in patients undergoing invasive brain monitoring for neurosurgical treatment, we found strong evidence for such a phenomenon in the human brain. Our findings support attractor network theories, which postulate that the brain settles into a more confined state space under task performance, and proximity to the targeted trajectory is linked to better performance.
Sexual reproduction is a key evolutionary innovation of eukaryotes, but despite its rather conserved core features ( syngamy/karyogamy and meiosis ), many aspects of sexual development show high evolutionary flexibility. Mating compatibility in fungi is governed by mating type ( MAT ) loci. In basidiomycetes, the ancestral state is hypothesized to be tetrapolar, with two genetically unlinked MAT genes containing homeodomain transcription factor genes ( HD locus and pheromone and receptor genes ) located ~55 kb apart from each other, respectively. Alleles at one of the MAT locs must differ between mating partners for completion of mating and complete the sexual cycle. However, in the order Tremellales, bipolarity is found only in pathogenic Cryptococcus species. Here, we describe the sequencing of two additional Trichosporonales genomes for C. oleaginosum ATCC20508 and Vanrija humicola CBS4282, and show that all the species analyzed have physically linked MAT alleles that contain both P/R and HD genes, similar to those found in other pathogenic taxa. These findings suggest that convergent evolution leading to the fusion of MAT regions is evolutionary beneficial under certain circumstances and has been selected for multiple times in these groups.
Chagas disease is the most important vector-borne disease in Latin America, with 9. 8 to 11 million infected people, 60 million at risk of infection, and a disease burden of over 800, 000 DALYs. It is thus of key importance to improve and optimize the efficacy of current insecticide spraying strategies to cope with ( re ) infestation by non-domiciliated vectors and to investigate the potential of alternative strategies such as insect screens or bednets. In the present contribution, we use a combination of field and modelling studies to evaluate the effectiveness of several strategies for the control of seasonal house infestations by triatomine populations in the Yucatan peninsula, Mexico. Our modelling shows that insecticides can hardly be achieved by spraying, because it would require yearly application and an accurate understanding of the temporal pattern of immigration. Insect screens appear to offer an effective and sustainable alternative, which may be part of multi-disease interventions.
Feathers are arranged in precise pattern in avian skin. They first arise during development in a row along the dorsal midline, with rows of new feather buds added sequentially in the spreading wave. We show that the patterning of feathers relies on coupled fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) and bone morphogenetic protein ( BMP ) signalling together with mesenchymal cell movement, acting in coordinated reaction-diffusion-taxis system. This system is partly mechanochemical with mechanical-chemical integration occurring through a positive feedback loop centred on the expression of Ectodysplasin A ( EDA ), which induces cell aggregation, mechanically compressing the epidermis to rapidly intensify its expression. The travelling wave of feather formation is imposed by expanding expression, triggering pattern formation by lowering the threshold of cells required to begin to form a feather bud. In fixed skin specimens, shapes consistent with such unstable intermediate condensations also show overlapping gene expression ( S1H Fig ) highlighting the tight temporal coincidence of these two phenomena.
The 2013–15 outbreak of Ebola virus disease in West Africa was unprecedented due to sustained transmission within urban environments and thousands of survivors. In 2014 the World Health Organization stated that there was insufficient evidence to give definitive guidance about which body fluids are infectious and when they pose a risk to humans. We report a rapid systematic review of published evidence on the presence of filoviruses in the blood of infected people and survivors of the 2014–2015 outbreak. The aim was to find primary data that suggested high likelihood of actively infectious virus in human body fluid ( viral RNA ). Eligible infections were from Marburg virus ( MARV or RAVV ) and Zaire, Sudan, Taï Forest and Bundibugyo species. Infection had to be laboratory confirmed ( in practice either tissue culture or RT-PCR tests ), or evidenced by compatible clinical history with subsequent positivity for virus antibodies or inflammatory factors. Data were extracted and summarized narratively. 6831 unique articles were found, and after screening, 33 studies were eligible. Body fluids taken >16 days after onset were usually positive, even when culture-positive, not least because most test results come from more severe cases.
The voltage trace of real neurons can follow multiple timescale dynamics that arise from correlated membrane conductances. Such processes can result in power-law behavior in which the membrane voltage cannot be characterized with a single time constant. The emergent effect of these membrane correlations is a non-Markovian process that can be modeled by integrating a fractional derivative. This model reproduces the upward and downward spike-frequency adaptations found experimentally in neocortical pyramidal cells and tectal neurons in vitro. Our model can reproduce spike adaptation and the responses to noisy and oscillatory input.
The ability of Paracoccidioides spp. to defend itself against reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced by host effector cells is a prerequisite to survive. To counteract these reactive species, fungal pathogens express, among different antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutases ( SODs ). In this study, we identified and characterized the genes encoded by the genome of one representative isolate of each one of the phylogenetic lineages. Assays were carried out to analyze the gene expression of yeast, mycelia cells, the yeast-to-yeast transition and the germination process, as well as under treatment with oxidative agents and during interaction with phagocytic cells and in a mouse model of infection. Using knockdown strains we showed these genes are involved in the response of P. brasiliensis to the oxidative stress-inducing agents generated endogenously during metabolism and counteracts oxidative burst of immune cells. Altogether, our data suggests that the fungus actively responds to these radicals generated in response to host-pathogen interactions.
Intrinsically disordered/unstructured proteins ( IDPs ) are extremely sensitive to proteolysis in vitro, but show no enhanced degradation rates in vivo. Their existence and functioning may be explained if they are preferentially associated with chaperones in the cell, which may offer protection against degradation by proteases. To test this inference, we took pairwise interaction data from high-throughput interaction studies and analyzed to see if predicted disorder correlates with the tendency of partner binding by proteins. Our major finding is that disorder predicted by the IUPred algorithm actually shows negative correlation with Chaperone binding in E. coli, S. cerevisiae, and metazoa species. We suggest that its primary reason is not the assistance of folding but promotion of assembly with partners.
The wing imaginal disc is an epithelial tissue that grows by cell proliferation during the larval development of the fly, and differentiates the wing and the thorax during pupal development. Several signalling pathways play a fundamental role during this process in part by regulating the expression of transcription factors. Among these pathways, the Decapentaplegic ( Dpp ) signalling pathway is required to regulate cell viability and motility during dorsal closure, but the same pathway controls growth and patterning in the lateral regions. The identification and analysis of candidate Salm/Salr target genes opens a new avenue to reconstruct the genetic structure of this tissue. Our work identifies an unsuspected transcriptional complexity occurring downstream of Spalt that involves repression as well as activation of gene expression.
Centriole duplication is the primary mechanism by which centrosome number is controlled, and involves building new daughter centrioles adjacent to each pre-existing mother. In humans perturbations of centroole number are associated with tumorigenesis and microcephaly. The C. elegans homolog of Plk4, ZYG-1, is required for the assembly of a single daughter. We have identified the two PP1 orthologs, GSP-2 and SDS-22, as key regulators of protein levels. Our data show that down-regulation of PPP1 activity either directly, or by mutation of szy-3 or sds-23, can rescue the loss of the duplication caused by a zyg- 1 hypomorphic allele. Suppression is achieved through an increase in the protein level of PPP1 through a post-translational mechanism.
In the last 35 years, visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) has reemerged as an important public health problem in different parts of the world, with the expansion of transmission and the occurrence of new cases. In the Americas, the disease occurs within a complex network of relationships involving the etiological agent, Leishmania infantum, and its different populations: sand flies, mainly of Lutzomyia longipalpis; domestic or wild vertebrates, sources of vector infection; and susceptible hosts. Although the dog is considered the main reservoir in the urban environment, it is necessary to consider the possibility of other non-human hosts participating in maintenance of this parasite in similar scenarios, i. e. wild areas that undergo environmental modifications, is evident.
Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is a human oncogenic virus that is closely associated with several human malignancies, including Burkitt's lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, extra-nodal nasal natural killer/T cell lymphomas ( NKTCL ), nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) and gastric cancer. Several viral proteins have been found to directly inhibit the expression of protein-coding genes and play critical roles in orchestrating diverse cellular processes. However, not all tumor tissues express these viral oncoproteins, suggesting that other mechanisms may contribute to the aggressive behavior of NPC tumor cells. In the present study, we used gain- and loss-of-function approaches to investigate the effect of miR-bART9 on the migration and invasiveness of cultured NPC cells in a mouse model. Through biochemical assays, functional rescue analysis and functional verification, our results indicated that the promigratory activity observed in vitro was manifested as an enhanced metastatic ability in vivo. Computational analysis revealed that a prometastatic viral miRNA is responsible for maintaining an epithelial cell phenotype and preserving cell-cell junctions.
Alternative splicing is the process through which different combinations of exons of the same gene are selected to produce a variety of mature coding and non-coding transcripts. In this study, we present ggsashimi, a command-line tool for the visualization of alternative splice events across multiple samples. It is freely available at https://github. com/guigolab, and internally generates R code for plotting.
Cross-species comparison has emerged as a powerful paradigm for predicting cis-regulatory modules ( CRMs ) and understanding their evolution. The comparison requires reliable sequence alignment, which remains a challenging task for less conserved noncoding sequences. Furthermore, the existing models of DNA sequence evolution generally do not explicitly treat the special properties of CRM sequences, and thus cannot take advantage of their specific structural and evolutionary properties. To address these limitations, we propose a computational framework that captures different modes of evolution of functional transcription factor binding sites ( TFBSs ) in a probabilistic framework. Our alignment method is similar to existing methods of statistical alignment but is used to improve alignment. We used alignments produced by our program to study binding site conservation in genome-wide binding data of key transcription factors in the Drosophila blastoderm, with two intriguing results: ( i ) the factor-bound sequences are under strong evolutionary constraints even if their neighboring genes are not expressed ( relative to transcription start sites ), whereas ( ii ) distal bound sequences tend to be more conserves than those in proximal regions.
The piRNA ( PIWI-interacting RNA ) pathway silences transposons in the germline, but it is unclear if this pathway has additional functions during development. Here we show that mutations in four Drosophila piRNAs, armi, aub, ago3, and rhi, lead to extensive fragmentation of the zygotic genome during the cleavage stage of embryonic divisions. Additionally, these mutations disrupt telomere resolution during meiosis and the cell division. Mutations in lig-IV, which disrupt non-homologous end joining, suppress these fusions. Chromatin immunoprecipitation studies reveal that the anub and armii genes have an additional function in assembly of chromsome ends.
Over the past 30 years, Zaire and Sudan ebolaviruses have been responsible for large hemorrhagic fever ( HF ) outbreaks with case fatalities ranging from 53% to 90%, while a third species, Côte d'Ivoire, caused a single non-fatal HF case. In November 2007, HF cases were reported in Bundibugyo District, Western Uganda. Laboratory investigation of the initial 29 suspect-case blood specimens by classic methods ( antigen capture, IgM and IgG ELISA ) and a recently developed random-primed pyrosequencing approach quickly identified this to be an Ebola HF outbreak associated with a newly discovered Ebola virus species. Due to the sequence divergence of this new virus relative to all previously recognized viruses, these findings have important implications for design of future diagnostic assays to monitor Ebola disease in humans and animals, and ongoing efforts to develop effective antivirals and vaccines.
The temporal progression of Alzheimer's Disease ( AD ) shows a pattern of high variability, with patients transiting the stages of the disease having time-courses ranging from months to decades. While the biological correlates of this variability have been investigated by many groups, the underlying reasons for such variations remain largely unknown. In this study, we use a large longitudinal dataset of AD patients, where there is a representation of patients at GDS/FAST stages 4–7. We calculate the amount of variance in patients explicitly, and demonstrate that the standard deviations for stage durations are comparable with their mean values, indicating the presence of large variations in the AD progression among patients.
The adult mammalian brain contains two neurogenic regions, the hippocampus and the olfactory bulb. One important distinction between these two areas is that neurogenesis is thought to be part of a neuronal turnover. This process involves the addition of new units to an expanding network. In our own work we have examined the functional role of this process in a simplified hippocampal memory model. We show that the network can adapt to changes in input statistics while preserving representations of earlier environments. Using realistic, spatially driven input firing patterns in the form of grid cells, we compare network performance across a sequence of spatial environments using three distinct adaptation strategies: conventional synaptic plasticity, where the networks are of fixed size but the connectivity is plastic; and additive neuralesis. The network starts out with fewer initial units but grows over time. Our results suggest that this adaptation rule can be tailored to maximise performance when operating as either a short- or long-term memory store. These results have several distinct features that form a theoretical prediction that could be tested experimentally.
African trypanosomes, the causative agents of human sleeping sickness and Nagana cattle disease, are extracellular parasitic protozoa with a digenetic life cycle. They multiply as infective bloodstream ( BS ) forms in blood and body fluids of their mammalian hosts and as procyclic insect form in the midgut of the tsetse fly vector. The mitochondrion of BS parasites is functionally repressed and the cells rely exclusively on glycolysis for ATP production. Nevertheless, parasites that lack the mitochondrial Px III display only a weak and transient proliferation defect. In the absence of Trolox, these parasites undergo extremely fast lipid peroxidation and cell lysis. This phenotype can completely be rescued by supplementing the medium with the α-tocopherol derivative, which preferably detoxifies lipid-derived hydroperoxides. T. brucei acquire iron by endocytosis of host transferrin, whereas the iron chelator deferoxamine and apo-transferrin attenuated Lysis of px I–II knockout cells. Immunofluorescence microscopy with MitoTracker and antibodies against the lysosomal marker protein p67 revealed that disintegration and total cell death precedes mitochondrial damage.
PMEL is an amyloidogenic protein that appears to be exclusively expressed in pigment cells and forms intralumenal fibrils within early stage melanosomes upon which eumelanins deposit in later stages. However, in most of these cases it is not clear whether the allelic variants reflect gain-of-function or loss of function. In this study, we have generated a mouse line in which the Pmel gene has been inactivated. These mice are fully viable, fertile, and display no obvious developmental defects. Melanosomes within melanocytes are spherical in contrast to the oblong shape present in wild-type animals. This feature was documented in primary cultures of skin-derived melanocytic compartments as well as in retinal pigment epithelium cells. Despite a mild effect on the coat color phenotype in four different genetic backgrounds, the clearest effect in mice also carrying the brown/Tyrp1 mutation was inactivation of PMEL, which strongly suggests that other previously described alleles in vertebrates with more striking effects on pigmentation are dominant-negative mutations.
Vector control remains the primary method to prevent dengue infections. Environmental interventions represent sustainable and safe methods as there are limited risks of environmental contamination and toxicity. The objective of this study is to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of the effectiveness of several environmental control methods for vector control. This is partly due to issues about study design with many studies not having sufficient quality. As for biological and chemical methods, these have been systematic reviewed with variable results. These methods may entail emptying or destroying water containers, cleaning of potential vector breeding sites, using container covers with insecticides, applying waste management strategies, implementing community-based clean-up campaigns and the installation of piped water supply.
Proteins are the main druggable therapeutic targets for the treatment of human diseases, ranging from metabolic disease, to cancer and dementia. However, designing new molecules as selective translation inhibitors to treat disease also necessitates a better understanding of how cells respond and adapt to compound-induced translational stalling. Compounds that inhibit the translation of PCSK9, a major regulator of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, have been identified that reduce LDL cholesterol in preclinical models and that affect only a few off-target proteins. Although some of these compounds hold potential for future therapeutic development, it is not known how they impact the physiology of cells or ribosome quality control pathways. Here, we used a genome-wide CRISPRi screen to identify proteins and pathways that modulate cell growth in the presence of high doses of a selective protein inhibitor, PF-06378503. We found that two of the most potent genetic modifiers of cell fitness, the ubiquitin binding protein ASCC2 and helicase ACC3, bind to the protein and protect cells from toxic effects of elevated concentrations of this compound. In genetic interaction experiments, HBS1L sensitizes cells to treatment. Taken together, these results reveal new connections between the cell dependencies most likely to be impacted by this class of inhibitors, and provide new insights into the selectivity of compounds that stall human translation.
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) is one of the most recently discovered human herpesviruses, and the etiologic agent of several neoplasms. One striking feature of lytic infection is that it destroys the host transcriptome by promoting global messenger RNA ( mRNA ) degradation via unknown mechanisms. The magnitude of cellular transcript loss is significant; nearly 75% of all messages are massively down-regulated, with another 20% undergoing a more modest decrease. This phenotype, termed host shutoff, is mediated by the viral factor SOX, which has homologs across the entire virus family. Here, we report that K SHV SOOX promotes aberrant polyadenylation of mRNAs in a manner dependent on its RNA turnover activity. We show that the expression of nuclear and cytoplasmic poly ( A ) binding proteins, the latter of which undergo striking nuclear relocalization, are critical cellular cofactors for the transcriptional regulation of mRNA turnover. These findings represent both a novel mechanism of host mutagenesis as well as a new model system to probe how poly-A- tail-stimulated mRNA degradation is regulated in mammalian cells.
The type III interferon ( IFNλ ) receptor IL-28R is abundantly expressed in the respiratory tract and has been shown essential for host defense against some viral pathogens, however no data are available concerning its role in innate immune response to bacterial pathogens. Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa induced significant production of IFNFλ, and clearance of these bacteria from the lung was significantly increased in mice lacking the receptor. Improved bacterial clearance correlated with reduced lung pathology and a reduced ratio of pro- vs anti-inflammatory cytokine production. In vitro studies were performed to establish the kinetics of type I and type II IFNs and to determine if the IL Nλ receptor promotes inflammation by inhibiting miR-21 regulation of PDCD4, a protein known to promote inflammatory signaling. Infection with either pathogen resulted in improved clearance and reduced pathology associated with decreased levels of inflammatory cytokines. These data suggest that during bacterial pneumonia, the intracellular signaling pathway mediates the cellular response, primarily through JAK/STAT signaling and the induction of ILN dependent gene expression.
The clinical management of HAT has always been confronted with the issue of treatment efficacy, drug toxicity and mortality risk factors. In the process of assigning the probable cause of death to disease progression, treatment side effects, or any other factors including but not limited to coexistent pathology, the assessment of clinical status on admission among the baseline characteristics may be crucial.
Social interactions are a key feature of the life style of many species. In humans, isolation has serious effects on health. Drosophila melanogaster is a powerful model to study small-scale, temporally-transient social behavior. However, longer-term analysis of large groups of flies is hampered by the lack of effective and reliable tools. We built a new imaging arena and improved the existing tracking algorithm to reliably follow a large number of fly simultaneously. Next, based on the automatic classification of touch and graph-based social network analysis, we designed an algorithm that was able to quantify changes in the social networks in response to prior social isolation. Our results show strong and specific effects of isolation on social dynamics, metabolic gene expression and animal physiology.
The emergence of mobile technology offers new opportunities to improve clinical guideline adherence in resource-limited settings. We conducted a clinical pilot study in rural Bangladesh to evaluate the impact of a smartphone adaptation of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) diarrheal disease management guidelines, including a modality for age-based weight estimation. Software development was guided by end-user input; functionality included weight-for-age estimation, a dehydration assessment guide, and treatment recommendations. A total of 841 patients were enrolled ( 325 pre-intervention; 516 intervention ). During the intervention, the proportion of prescriptions for intravenous fluids decreased at the district and sub-district hospitals ( both p < 0. 001 ) with risk ratios ( RRs ) of 1. 6 and 2, respectively. However, when IV fluids were prescribed the volume better adhered to recommendations, which may be more practical for staff. This study should serve as a catalyst for a randomized controlled trial to expand on the findings and address limitations.
The effects of global environmental change on infectious disease dynamics have broad consequences that span human health, food security, and conservation. Climate change–driven temperature changes will likely impact the nature of host–parasite interactions, as both host and parasite traits can be strongly affected by temperature. Using experimental data from Daphnia magna and a microsporidian parasite, we fitted a mechanistic model of the within-host parasite population dynamics. Model parameters comprising host aging and mortality as well as parasite growth, virulence and equilibrium abundance, were specified by relationships arising from the metabolic theory of ecology. The model effectively predicted host survival, parasite development rate, the cost of infection across temperature while using less than half the parameters compared to modeling temperatures discretely. Our results serve as a proof of concept that linking simple metabolic models with a model can predict temperature responses of parasite populations dynamics at the host level. Because of its simplicity and generality, this framework provides a valuable approach for predicting the outcomes and consequences of infections for hosts and parasites in light of climate change.
GABAergic interneurons play an important role in shaping the activity of excitatory pyramidal cells ( PCs ). How the various inhibitory cell types contribute to neuronal information processing, however, is not resolved. In this study, we propose a functional role for a widespread network motif consisting of parvalbumin- ( PV ), somatostatin ( SOM ) and vasoactive intestinal peptide ( VIP ) -expressing neurons. We propose that mutual inhibition between PV and SOM cells translates weak inputs into large changes of somato-dendritic inhibition of PCs. The neuronal and synaptic properties of the circuit support this hypothesis, and we demonstrate that the SOM-VIP motif allows transient inputs to persistently switch between two processing modes, in which top-down inputs onto apical dendrites are either integrated or cancelled.
Microbiota contribute to many dimensions of host phenotype, including disease. To link specific microbes to specific phenotypes, microbiome-wide association studies compare microbial abundances between two groups of samples. Abundance differences, however, reflect not only direct associations with the phenotype but also indirect effects due to microbial interactions. Using techniques from statistical physics, we developed a method to remove indirect associations and applied it to the largest dataset on pediatric inflammatory bowel disease and found that only a small subset of the previously reported associations could be explained by interspecific interactions rather than the disease itself. Direct associations had a much higher accuracy in separating cases from controls and pointed to immunomodulation, butyrate production, and the brain-gut axis as important factors.
The potential for Wolbachia as a natural control method for mosquito-borne pathogens such as dengue virus ( DENV ), Chikungunya virus, West Nile virus and malaria has been the focus of intense study in recent years. However, several disease transmitting mosquito species remain recalcitrant to this pathogen transinfection, hampering efforts to better understand the interaction between the host and disease causing pathogens. In this study, we have compared the effect of the naturally occurring virus in two infection models ( transient and transiently infected ) on the replication, infection- and transmission rates of two flaviviruses. Our results show that the virus blocking effect was significantly lower in the stable infected Ae. aegypti when compared to the stably infected line. More importantly, no evidence was found for any enhancement of either DEND or WNV ( Kunjin strain ) infection in Ae, a mosquito that is chronically infected with the natural virus.
Cilia are microtubule-based cellular organelles that mediate signal transduction. In vertebrates, the cystoprotein Inversin localizes to a portion of the cilia shaft adjacent to the transition zone ( TZ ), a region termed the “Inversins compartment”. The mechanisms that establish and maintain the InvC are unknown. Here we explored the biogenesis, structure, and composition of C. elegans ciliary doublet region and the co-localization of NPHP-2, arl-13, klp-11, unc-119. We show that nphp-1 is conserved and distinct from the doublets region, but that components in these two regions interact to regulate ciliogenesis via cilium placement, Ciliary microtructure and protein localization.
The myelin sheath, a multilamellar elongation of the plasma membrane formed by oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system ( CNS ), allows for the rapid, saltatory conduction of action potentials along axons. In individuals afflicted with demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis, CNS myelination is destroyed, resulting in functional deficits. Here, we demonstrate that the basal polarity complex protein Scribble is up-regulated at times corresponding to the transition from developing and mature CNS heraths to mature herath sheaths. We show that this protein is localised throughout the cell body and processes, and localises to non-compact axonal membranes flanking the node of Ranvier where it is required for paranodal axo-glial adhesion. These findings demonstrate an essential role for intracellular Polarity in mediating the regulation of axon-like membrane formation.
Streptolysin S ( SLS ) is a bacteriocin-like haemolytic and cytotoxic virulence factor that plays a key role in listeriosis, the causative agent of pharyngitis, impetigo, necrotizing fasciitis and streptococcal toxic shock syndrome. The distribution of the L. monocytogenes cluster is particularly noteworthy in that it is found exclusively among a subset of lineage I strains; i. e., those responsible for the majority of outbreaks of infection of pregnant and immuno-compromised humans. Expression of these genes results in the production of a highly conserved H- and B-terminal protease, designated Listeriolysin S, which contributes to the pathogenicity as assessed by murine and human polymorphonuclear neutrophil–based studies. Thus, in this study, we have identified the genetic basis for an extended family of S. supernatant ( MVPs ) with a view to their potential applications in medicine or food.
Mycetoma is a chronic granulomatous inflammatory disease caused either by fungi or by bacteria. Characteristic of this disease is that the causative agents organise themselves in macroscopic structures called grains. These grains are surrounded by a massive inflammatory reaction. The processes leading to this host tissue reaction and the immunophenotypic characteristics are not known. To address this question, as a proof of principle, we assessed the expression levels of interleukin-17 and matrix metalloprotease 9 ( MMP-9 ) in the mycete granule and correlated their expression level with the clinical characteristics of the patients. We found that both the cytokines were expressed at the site of infection and that this correlation was dependent on the disease duration.
Molecular recognition by intrinsically disordered proteins ( IDPs ) commonly involves specific localized contacts and target-induced disorder to order transitions. However, some IDP remain in the bound state, a phenomenon termed “fuzziness”. This phenomenon has been characterised by ID-protein polyvalency, sequence-insensitivity and a dynamic ensemble of dissordered bound-state conformations. Besides the above general features, specific biophysical models for fuzzy interactions are mostly lacking. The transcriptional activation domain of the Ewing's Sarcoma oncoprotein family ( EAD ) exhibits many features of fuzziness, such that it is fused to various transcription factor partners. Considering the prevalent role of cation-π interactions, we hypothesized that the attraction between numerous unconstrained aromatic residues ( π's ) and basic residues on the target. Herein we tested this idea experimentally and also theoretically in molecular simulations that are based on a generic folded target with appropriate surface charge. We found broad agreement between the experimental effects of a range of sequence variations, including aromatic number, aromatic density and charge perturbations, all support the hypothesis. Such a highly versatile mode of molecular recognition offers a general conceptual framework for promiscuous target recognition.
Borrelia burgdorferi, the etiologic agent of Lyme disease, is transmitted through the blood feeding of Ixodes ticks. The canonical ATP-dependent protease Lon participates in an assortment of biological processes in bacteria, including the catalysis of damaged or senescent proteins and short-lived regulatory proteins. In the absence of known secreted proteases in the genome, we have documented the reliance of this organism on borrowed proteolytic activity. Previous work in our laboratory reported that the canonical E. coli Lon ( Lon-1, BB0253 ) is upregulated transcriptionally by exposure to blood in vitro, while lon-2 is not. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that Lon proteins cluster separately due to differences in their NH2-terminal substrate binding domains that may reflect different substrate specificity. Our results support the idea that Lons, by virtue of their blood induction, and as a unique feature of the Borreliae, may be important in host adaptation from the arthropod to a warm-blooded host.
Fc gamma receptor ( FcγR ) -mediated antibody functions play a crucial role in preventing HIV infection. One such function, antibody-dependent phagocytosis ( ADP ), is thought to be involved in controlling other viral infections, but its role is unknown. In this study, we measured the ability of HIV-specific polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) to mediate the internalization of virus-infected cells or virions into cells and cells on the verge of infection, and uptake of these cells was measured by cytometry. We surprisingly found minimal or no antibody in the presence of any of the antibodies. However, after coating the cells with gp41-derived peptides, the virus was able to efficiently and efficiently enter the cell. Furthermore, by employing fluorescence correlation spectroscopy, a well-established technique to measure particle sizes and aggregation phenomena, our findings indicate that virus aggregation can be an effective mechanism for virus clearance.
Hookworm infection ( hookworm ) is highly endemic in many low- and middle-income countries throughout the world, its global economic and health impact is not well known. Therefore, it is difficult for decision makers such as funders, policy makers, disease control officials, intervention manufacturers to determine how much time, energy, and resources to invest in hookworms control. In this study, we developed a computational simulation model to estimate the economic, health and economic burden of hook worm infection in every country, WHO region and globally, in 2016 from the societal perspective. Globally, infection resulted in a total of 2, 126, 280 DALYs using 2004 disability weight estimates and 4, 087, 803 ( excluding cognitive impairment outcomes ). The total productivity losses varied with the probability of anemia and calculation method used, ranging from $7. 5 billion to $138. 9 billion annually using gross national income per capita as a proxy for annual wages. Even though the number of persons in each age group is low, moderate ( 28–65 worms ), or heavy intensity ( >65 ) infection did not significantly increase the overall productivity loss worldwide. Additionally, certain large countries that are transitioning to higher income countries, like Brazil and China, still face considerable hook-worm burden.
Hypoxic injury to the developing human brain is a major cause of both acute and chronic neurodevelopmental impairments. Premature infants, particularly those characterized by very-low birth weights ( VLBW; less than 1, 500 g ), are the population at greatest risk for chronic hypoxemia and for adverse neurocognitive outcomes. Hypoxia causes discrete axon pathfinding errors in certain interneurons and motor neurons. However, it is unknown whether this phenomenon would have similar effects in a vertebrate nervous system. To test this we developed a zebrafish, Danio rerio, to study the mechanisms of hypoxic brain injury in vertebrates. We found that developmental hypaxia disrupts the axonal patterning of forebrain neurons, leading to defects in which commissural axons fail to cross the midline. These defects result from activation of a transcription factor ( hif1 ) pathway, and are mimicked by chemical inducers of the pathway or by expression of constitutively active proteins. Further, we identified ephrinB2a as a target of transcriptional activation and showed that it rescued the guidance errors. Our results demonstrate that evolutionarily conserved genetic pathways regulate connectivity changes in the CNS and support a potential neuroprotective role for magnesium.
Human paracoccidioidomycosis ( PCM ) is an endemic fungal infection of pulmonary origin that disseminates to different sites, notably oral mucous membranes, skin, adrenal glands and reticuloendothelial system. Primary infection in humans occurs in the lungs, where it causes chronic granulomatous inflammation of the parenchyma leading to fibrosis and severe restriction of respiratory function. This study focuses on a comparative analysis between High Resolution Computed Tomography ( HRCT ) and histopathological parameters, determining usefulness of performing noninvasive conventional medical X-ray tomography in follow-up of sequential lung lesions in mice induced by conidial inoculation. The experimental design used decreases the need to sacrifice a large number of animals and serves to monitor treatment efficacy by means of a more rational approach to the study of human lung disease.
In areas endemic for visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ), a large number of infected individuals mount a protective cellular immune response and remain asymptomatic carriers. We propose an interferon-gamma release assay ( IFN-γRA ) as a novel marker for latent L. donovani infection. In this study, we modified a commercial kit ( QuantiFERON ) and evaluated its potential to detect the cell-mediated T-cell immune responses. The assay based on SLA had a sensitivity of 80% and specificity of 100%, respectively. Our findings suggest that a whole-blood assay can be used to measure the T cell response to stimulation with Leishmania antigen.
Gastrointestinal infections caused by enteric yersiniae can become persistent and complicated by relapsing enteritis and severe autoimmune disorders. To establish a persistent infection, the bacteria have to cope with hostile surroundings when they transmigrate through the intestinal epithelium and colonize underlying gut-associated lymphatic tissues. Here, we show that the CNFY toxin, which enhances translocation of the antiphagocytic Yop effectors, induces inflammatory responses. This results in extensive tissue destruction, alteration of intestinal microbiota and bacterial clearance. Suppression of this function, however, increases interferon-γ-mediated responses, comprising non-inflammatory antimicrobial activities and tolerogenesis. The process is accompanied by a preterm reprogramming of bacterial transcriptional response towards persistence, and facilitates establishment of a commensal-type life style.
Plants are generally immune to most pathogenic microbes due to their innate defense systems, but the exceptional combination of a susceptible host and a pathogen species ( or race ) can result in disease. Plants have two types of defense mechanisms: one against general microorganisms, and the other against specific pathogens. One of them is effector-triggered immunity ( PTI ), which is stimulated by plant surveillance proteins ( R-proteins ) that specifically recognize one of the pathogens' effectors ( Avr proteins ). In this early infectious stage, the general defense mechanism is known as PAMP-associated molecular pattern ( PAM ) triggered immunity and is initiated by extracellular surface receptors that recognize general features of micromicroorganisms such as bacterial flagellin, chitosans ( the deacetylated product of Chitin ) and other fungal proteins. The plant–fungi interaction is assumed to be a molecular war, possibly considered as an interactive reaction that ultimately determines the level of disease severity. Therefore, there is growing research on plant-pathogen factors focusing on this stage.
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by infection with the trematode schistomosoma spp., transmitted through fresh water snails whose distribution is limited and particularly sensitive to environmental changes. Transmission of the disease is focal and the spatial heterogeneity across specific geographical areas reflects various human, snail host, and ecological factors. To determine where control programs should operate, it is essential to identify and enumerate target populations for mass drug administration ( MDA ) with praziquantel ( PZQ ) – not only who among the total population of school-age children ( SAC ) and high risk adults ( HRA ) should be treated, but also how often such treatment is given following the preventive chemotherapy guidelines recommended by the World Health Organization. In this study, we evaluated the accuracy of a predictive risk map for the prevalence of Schisto haematobium in Ghana and compared it to the empiric results gathered during the 2010 survey. We found that the predictive map had acceptable predictive capacity to distinguish areas of medium ( ≥10% and <50% prevalence, respectively ) from high ( <10%; >50%; and >25%; respectively; but the alternative of assessing each school in potentially endemic areas or elsewhere is not at all feasible; modelling must be a tool complementary to empirical assessments.
Sperm have a relatively simple job—find an oocyte and provide it with a second set of chromosomes. While much has been learned about sperm motility in aquatic species, the mechanisms that guide sperm to oocytes in internally fertilizing animals are less well understood. Caenorhabditis elegans is a powerful model to study sperm behavior and fertilization. Here we use genetics and electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry to partially delineate F-series prostaglandin metabolism pathways. We show that omega-6 fatty acids ( PUFAs ), including arachidonic and eicosapentaenoic acids, are converted into more than 10 structurally related F series prostagslandins, which function collectively and largely redundantly to promote sperm guidance. Disruption of polyunsaturated fatty acid synthesis triggers compensatory up-regulation of PGF2α stereoisomers, yet the cytochrome P450 enzyme, whose human homolog is implicated in Bietti's Crystalline Dystrophy, negatively regulates the synthesis. Our results support the model that multiple cyclooxygenase-independent pathways for Fseries synthesis may be conserved.
The immunogenicity of biotherapeutics can bottleneck development pipelines and pose a barrier to widespread clinical application. As a result, there is a growing need for improved deimmunization technologies. We have recently described algorithms that simultaneously optimize proteins for both reduced T cell epitope content and high-level function. The leading edge of this design space is the Pareto frontier, i. e. the undominated variants for which no other single design exhibits better performance in both criteria. Here, we have designed, constructed, and evaluated experimentally. Various measures of protein performance were found to map a functional sequence space that correlated well with computational predictions. These results represent the first systematic and rigorous assessment of the functional penalty that must be paid for pursuing progressively more and de-risking experimental therapeutics.
Sexually reproducing species use a specialized form of cell division known as meiosis to create haploid gametes from diploid progenitor cells ( or a similar genomic reduction in polyploids ). The frequency and distribution of crossovers are regulated by intrinsic and extrinsic environmental factors, but much more is known about the molecular mechanisms governing the former compared to the latter. Here we show that elevated temperature induces meiotic hyper-recombination in Arabidopsis thaliana and we use genetic analysis with mutants in different recombination pathways to demonstrate that the extra COs are derived from the major Type I interference sensitive pathway. This indicates that heat-dependent CO frequencies are not the result of an increase in DNA double-strand breaks. Taken together, these findings provide initial mechanistic insight into how environmental cues modulate plant meiotics and may also offer practical applications.
Human knowledge about fundamental molecular structures and functions, such as mutations or protein-protein interactions, is spread across the entire literature. Even knowledgeable and experienced scientists can benefit from computational tools that help navigate this vast and rapidly evolving terrain. In this paper, we describe a novel computational approach to this challenge, a knowledge-based system that combines reading, reasoning, and reporting methods to facilitate analysis of experimental data. Reading methods extract information from external resources, either by parsing structured data or using biomedical language processing. Reasoning methods enrich the knowledge that results from reading by, for example, noting two genes that are annotated to the same ontology term or database entry. The use of the tool was critical in the creation of hypotheses regarding the roles of four genes never previously characterized as involved in craniofacial development; each of these hypotheses was validated by further experimental work.
Helminth parasites secrete extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) that can be internalised by host immune cells resulting in modulation of host immunity. While the molecular cargo of EVs have been characterised in many parasites, little is known about the surface-exposed molecules that participate in ligand-receptor interactions with the host cell surface to initiate their internalisation. Using a membrane-impermeable biotin reagent to capture proteins displayed on the outer membrane surface of two EV sub-populations of adult F. hepatica, we describe 380 surface proteins including an array of virulence factors, membrane transport proteins and molecules involved in EV biogenesis/trafficking. Proteomics and immunohistochemical analysis show that the 120k EVs are released from the parasite gut via the protonephridial ( excretory ) system whilst the larger 15k EV are produced by the gastrodermal epithelial cells that line the fluke gut. Pre-treatment with antibodies raised against specific EV surface protein ( DM9-containing protein, CD63 receptor and myoferlin ) significantly enhanced their uptake by macrophages, an effect that could be replicated using antibodies raising against other surface molecules. This work provides a template for a greater understanding of the interactive mechanism ( s ) between parasite-derived EVs and recipient host cells.
The precise regulation of microRNA ( miRNA ) transcription and processing is important for eukaryotic development. Plant microRNAs are first transcribed as stem-loop primary transcripts by RNA polymerase II, then cleaved in the nucleus by Dicer-like 1 ( DCL1 ). In this study, we identified a cycling DOF transcription factor, CDF2, which regulates the accumulation of a population of mi RNA genes. We found that the interaction between CDFs2 and the promoters of pri-miRNA genes is preferentially regulated by itself, and affects the processing of these genes in vivo. Genetically, the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels of this population are similar to those of other Dof proteins.
Folliculogenesis is a progressive and highly regulated process, which is essential to provide ova for later reproductive life, requires the bidirectional communication between the oocyte and granulosa cells. This physical connection-mediated communication conveys not only the signals from the Oocyte to granular cells that regulate their proliferation but also metabolites that are biosynthesized by oocytes for biosynthesis. However, the underlying mechanism of establishing this communication is largely unknown. In this study, we report a novel function of protein geranylgeranyl diphosphate ( GGPP ), a metabolic intermediate involved in the post-translational modification that is required for the formation or activation of cell-cell communication proteins and receptors as well as G-protein coupled receptors. Our study provides the evidence that the GTPase-dependent secretion of Oocytes-granulos cell materials is critical for early follicular development, such as the primary-secondary follicle transition.
The RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) is a processive eukaryotic enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of messenger RNA using a DNA template. Despite numerous biochemical and biophysical studies, it remains elusive whether the “secondary channel” is the only route for NTP to reach the active site of the enzyme or if the main channel could be an alternative. In this work, we have built a complete transcription bubble based on multiple sources of existing structural data and used Molecular Dynamics ( MD ) simulations together with structural analysis to shed light on the diffusion routes of nucleoside triphosphate in the secondary channel. We found that although both channels have enough space to allow the passage of a nuclear-transcriptional molecule through the primary channel, the percentage of MD conformations containing enough room for the loading of nuclear nucleotides is twice as high as that of either channel and that this is mainly due to the strong repulsion from the negatively charged backbones of nearby nucleotsides. Our results suggest that secondary channels are the major route to enter the functional site during the transcription process.
Disease incidence data are needed to guide decision-making for public health interventions. Although dengue is a reportable disease in Thailand and Cambodia, the degree that reported incidence underrecognizes true disease burden is unknown. To overcome this problem, authors of several published studies multiplied the number of reported cases by a set factor to obtain an estimate of actual cases. Usually these multiplication factors ( MFs ) have been based on data derived from a single study, often performed in a clinic or hospital. In this study we used data from three cohort studies to estimate the magnitude of the disease and to establish more accurate disease burdens estimates for these countries. Age-group specific multiplication factor calculations were applied to country-level reporting data and indicated that Thailand a median 229, 886 ( range 210, 612–331, 236 ) cases occurred annually during 2003–2007 and >58, 000 children in Cambodia were estimated to be hospitalized. During the high-incidence year 2007, >95, 002 children from kindergarten to grade five ( age-range: 4 to 13 years of age ) were hospitalized due to Dengue.
Natural killer ( NK ) cells, plasmacytoid dendritic cells ( pDCs ), CD11b and CD8α conventional dendsritic cell ( cDC ) have all been demonstrated to be important for the generation of protective immunity to various viral infections. However, how the functions of different types of immune cells impact the shaping of the global immune response to viruses in vivo is not well understood. To address this question, we took advantage of well-defined molecular interactions involved in the recognition of mouse cytomegalovirus ( MCMV ) by NK cells. By using congenic or mutant mice and wild-type versus genetically engineered viruses we examined the consequences of specific defects in NK cell responses against a viral infection in vitro. This system allowed us to demonstrate, to our knowledge, the ability of NK to limit IFN-α/β production to levels not immunosuppressive to the host—which itself results from the early control of viral replication. Moreover, our data demonstrate that the innate immune responses of natural killer cells are not intrinsically deficient for antiviral effector functions, and that they contribute to balance the intensity of other innate responses, which dampens early immunopathology and promotes optimal initiation of antivirus CD 8 T cells responses.
In eukaryotes, ribosomal RNA genes are arranged in tandem arrays in copy numbers ranging from several hundred to several thousand in plants. Although it is clear that not all copies are transcribed under normal growth conditions, the molecular basis controlling the expression of specific sets of rRNA genes remains unclear. In this study, we report four major RRNA gene variants in Arabidopsis thaliana. Interestingly, while transcription of one of these variants is induced and the others are either repressed or remain unaltered in Atnuc-L1 mutants. Remarkably, AtNUC-like protein gene variant, which is inactive in WT plants, is reactivated. We show that accumulated pre–rRNAs originate from RNA Pol I transcription and are processed accurately. Moreover, disruption of the At NUC L1 gene induces loss of symmetrical DNA methylation without affecting histone epigenetic marks at rRN genes. Collectively, these data reveal a novel mechanism for r RNA gene transcriptional regulation in which the nucleolin protein plays a major role in controlling active and/or silencing.
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a ubiquitous β-herpesvirus that causes life-long disabilities in immunocompromised adults, specifically individuals undergoing solid organ or hematopoietic cell transplant and individuals with Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome ( AIDS ). In this report, we have identified candidate HDAC1-interacting proteins in the context of infection by using a method for rapid immunoisolation of an epitope-tagged protein coupled with mass spectrometry. Putative interactors included multiple human proteins. The interaction of pUL38 and pul29/28 with HDA1 was confirmed by reciprocal immunoprecipitations. HDac1 is present in numerous protein complexes, including the deacetylase protein complex, NuRD, and shRNA-mediated knockdown of the RBBP4 and CHD4 constituents inhibited viral DNA accumulation; together this argues that multiple components of this complex are needed for efficient replication and pathogenesis. Consistent with a positive acting role for the Nu RD elements during viral replication, the growth of virus-deficient viruses could not be rescued by treating infected cells with trichostatin A. Transient expression of a mutant virus in a reporter assay, regardless of expression, enhanced activity of NURD components, consistent with the inhibition of immediate-early RNA accumulation within the infected cell. Importantly, induction of nuRD component components required functional components to inhibit viral growth.
Respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) is the major cause of pneumonia and bronchiolitis among infants and children globally. In this study, we elucidated the antibody repertoire following primary infection and traced its evolution through adolescence and adulthood. Whole genome-fragment phage display libraries ( GFPDL ) expressing linear and conformational epitopes in the fusion protein F and attachment protein ( G ) were used for unbiased epitope profiling of infant sera pre- and post-RSV infection. We identified a 100-fold increase in antibody titers from young children to adults, but declined significantly in adults using either G proteins or peptides. This study identified unlinked evolution of anti-F and anti G responses and supportive evidence for immune pressure driven evolution. These findings could help development of effective countermeasures including vaccines.
Filariae are parasitic nematodes that are transmitted to their definitive host as third-stage larvae by arthropod vectors like mosquitoes. They cause diseases including lymphatic filariasis with distressing and disturbing symptoms like elephantiasis; and river blindness. For over 25 years now, the strategy for controlling filarial diseases has relied on Mass Drug Administration ( MDA ) programs directed by the World Health Organization using donated drugs to reduce the transmission and morbidity of these filariae. The drugs available for mass drug administration, ( ivermectin, albendazole and diethylcarbamazine ), are ineffective against adult parasites. Emodepside, a veterinary anthelmintic, is reported to have macrofilaricidal effects. In this study, we explore the mode of action of, and sensitivity to, this veterinary drug. We expressed slo-1 isoforms, with alternatively spliced exons at the RCK1 ( Regulator of Conductance of Potassium ) domain, heterologously in Xenopus laevis oocytes. RNAi knock down suggests that the male is more sensitive than the female. Our observations show that emodefside potently inhibits motility by activating voltage-gated potassium channels in muscles of males and that this effect is influenced by sex-linked splice variants in a binding pocket of the parasite.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a disabling and disfiguring disease caused by mosquito-borne, filarial ( threadlike ) parasitic worms. The Global Program to Eliminate LF relies on rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ) to determine where annual mass drug administration for LF is required and when it can be stopped. These tests detect a Wuchereria bancrofti glycoprotein in the blood of infected persons via a carbohydrate moiety recognized by the monoclonal antibodies AD12 and DH6. 5. Loiasis cross-reactivity with these tests has recently been recognized as a serious obstacle to LF elimination in loiasis-endemic areas. To better understand the nature of this cross reactivity, we used an antibody to immunoaffinity purify Loa loa antigens from the sera of individuals with a positive LF test. We identified many circulating L. loas proteins, suggesting that they may be released by dying adult worms and/or microfilariae.
Primary cilia are specialised sensory and developmental signalling devices extending from the surface of most eukaryotic cells. Defects in these organelles cause inherited human disorders ( ciliopathies ) such as retinitis pigmentosa and Bardet-Biedl syndrome ( BBS ). Cilium formation, maintenance and function depend on intracellular transport systems, which are driven by kinesin-2 and IFT-dynein motors, and regulated by the cargo-adaptor protein complex, or BBSome. In this study, we employed the nematode C. elegans to identify new ciliary/ciliogenic genes. Using whole-organism RNA-Seq libraries generated specifically to improve annotation of the transcriptome we discovered a signature expression profile highly enriched for transcripts of known cile proteins, including FAM-161 ( FAM161A orthologue ), CCDC-104, RPI-1 ( RP1/RP1L1 ) and RAB-28. From a list of 185 candidate cILium-associated genes we uncover orthologues of human MAP9, YAP, CCCDC149, CRAB28, a GTPase most closely related to the bBS protein RRABL4/IFT27. Functional analyses reveal that whilst cilsium structure, sensory function and iFT are seemingly normal in a rab-27 null allele, overexpression of predicted GDP or GFP locked variants perturbs cillium and sensory pore morphogenesis and functions. Collectively, our findings present a new approach for identifying cillary proteins and unveil Rab28 as an I-FT/CILIUM-related cargo with BB-Some-dependent cell autonomous and non-autonomous functions at the periciliary base.
Stimulus reconstruction, as implemented by the scientist, typically involves three steps: ( i ) characterizing the space of relevant stimuli; ( ii ) constructing functions relating stimuli to neuronal responses; and ( iii ) using these functions, together with new neuronal activity, in order to “decode” new stimuli. In this work we show that a great deal of information about a physical environment can be obtained using only very coarse features of population spiking activity. Using hippocampal place cells as a model system, we find that one can ( 1 ) extract global features from the environment, ( 2 ) construct an accurate representation of space, up to an overall scale factor, that is used to track the animal's position. Unlike previous approaches, this information is derived without knowing place fields or any other function relating neural responses to position; simply knowing which groups of cells fire together reveals a surprising amount of structure in the underlying stimulus space; this may enable the brain to construct its own internal representations.
Viral fulminant hepatitis ( FH ) is a clinical syndrome characterized by massive necrosis of hepatocytes along with hepatic encephalopathy during the infections. Despite advances in the development of antiviral drugs, a poor understanding of the immune mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of human viral fH has largely stalled the identification of effective clinical interventions. Here, we show that wild-type mice infected with murine hepatitis virus strain 3 ( MHV-3 ) manifest with severe disease and high mortality in association with a significant elevation in IL-1β expression in both the serum and liver. Whereas, the viral infection in mice deficient of NLRP3 and Caspase 1, two essential components of NALP3 inflammasome complex, show reductions in virus replication, disease progress and mortality. Furthermore, mice in deficiencies of p47phox, an NADPH oxidase subunit that controls acute ROS production, present with reductions of NF-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) signaling pathways, which appears to be responsible for acquiring resilience to viral disease. Our results demonstrate that the ROS/NL RP3/IL- 1β axis is an essential signaling pathway that is over activated and directly causes the severe liver disease during viral virus infection.
Hookworm infections are an important cause of ( severe ) anemia and iron deficiency in children in the tropics. Type of hookworm species ( Ancylostoma duodenale or Necator americanus ) and infection load are considered to be associated with disease burden, although these parameters are rarely assessed due to limitations of currently used diagnostic methods. Using multiplex real-time PCR, we evaluated the prevalence of the two species and their contribution towards severe disease in pre-school Malawi. Infection load was found in 34. 1% and in 27. 0% of severely anemic cases whereas a 5. 6% prevalence was detected by microscopy. Iron deficiency ( assessed through bone marrow examination ) was positively correlated with intensity of infection and was greater in patients with a high iron content. This study demonstrates the need for quantitative and species-specific screening of parasite infections.
DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) are toxic DNA lesions that, if not repaired correctly, can cause gross chromosomal alterations. For this reason, most human cells ( especially non-cycling somatic cells ) typically rely on NHEJ for repair. Homologous recombination ( HR ) is based on DNA end protection: nucleases degrade the dsDNA ends to expose 3′ single strand ( ss ) DNA tails, which then form a nucleoprotein filament with the recombinase RAD51 that promotes strand invasion and subsequent DNA synthesis reactions. Because of its conservative nature, HR is better suited for maintaining genome stability, but it requires an undamaged DNA template ( i. e. the sister chromatid or homolog chromosome ) which is not always available. Here, we identify COM-1, the homologue of CtIP/Sae2/Ctp1 in Caenorhabditis elegans, as a crucial regulator of the repair pathway choice during meiotic gametogenesis. Our results uncover the potentially lethal properties of HR and identify a critical role for COM–1 for interhomolog HR.
Burkholderia pseudomallei causes melioidosis, a common source of pneumonia and sepsis in Southeast Asia and Northern Australia that results in high mortality rates. In this study, we analyzed the humoral immune response of the caprine model of aerosol infection that leads to a systemic infection. Antibody reactive proteins were detected in all serum samples after infection, with GroEL, EF-Tu, and DnaK immunogenically dominant. Seven common reactive antigens were selected for further analysis using ELISA. The heat shock protein Groel1 elicited the strongest goat antibody response compared to the other six proteins.
Cytoplasmic cyclin-dependent kinase 1 ( Cdk1 ), triggered by a positive feedback loop at the end of G2, is the key event that initiates mitotic entry into mitosis. In metaphase, anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome–dependent destruction of Cyclin B1 inactivates the complex again, allowing cells to exit and cell division. Several models describe the kinetics of the activation in human cells, but experimental data on how the activity proceeds in the cytosol have largely been lacking. We use a novel approach to determine the temporal development of cyclins-1–Cdk 1 activity in single cells. By quantifying both dephosphorylation and phosphoryllation of a target protein, we reveal how cyclinos-2–1 activity continues to be activated after centrosome separation. Importantly, our results show that cytoply-cylin bicylase activity, in combination with a gradual increase in activity to coordinate early and late mitototic events.
The development of a neutralizing antibody ( Nab ) -based vaccine that is protective against diverse human immunodeficiency virus-1 subtypes remains a major global health challenge. While a number of different immunogens have been tested in both animals and humans, it is unclear which specific epitopes on the HIV surface should be targeted by a vaccine and if vaccine-elicited Nabs will mediate protection. To gain insight to this question, numerous studies have analyzed the epitope targets that are targeted during natural HIV infection. In this study, we examined the Nab responses of 21 Kenyan women collectively exposed to subtype A, C, and D and superinfected after a median time of ~1. 07 years post-SI. Plasma samples chosen for analysis were collected at a time point ~2. 72 years after initial infection, suggesting that the majority of their neutralization activity can be mapped to the 4 main CD4-binding site, a V1/V2 glycan, the N332 supersite in V3 and the membrane proximal external region of gp41. Computational sera delineation analyses suggested that 20 of the 21 superfected women’s responses could not be ascribed a single specificity with high confidence. These data are consistent with a model in which SI with diverse Subtypes promotes the development and dissemination of polyclonal antibodies.
Congenital human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) infection is the leading cause of neurological disabilities in children worldwide, but the mechanisms underlying these disorders are far from well-defined. In the present study, we report that H CMV infection dysregulates the Notch signaling pathway in human neural progenitor cells ( NPCs ). As an important downstream effector of NotCH signaling, the transcriptional regulator Hairy and Enhancer of Split 1 ( Hes1 ) is essential for governing NPC fate and fetal brain development. Our study suggests a novel mechanism linking downregulation of Hes-1 protein to neurodevelopmental disorders caused by infection.
In the pursuit of the genetic basis of phenotypic evolution, researchers have favored divergence of gene expression as a major source of diversity. To better characterize how variation in regulatory sequences drives divergence in expression, we undertook a systematic study of transcription factor binding, measured by mRNA-seq, to the genome-wide binding of four transcription factors involved in early anterior-posterior patterning in blastoderm embryos. We found that mRNA levels are much better conserved than individual factors binding events, and that changes in a gene's expression were poorly explained. However, highly bound sites, sites in regions bound by multiple factors and sites near genes are more frequently than other binding. This suggests that a considerable amount of regulatory binding is weakly or non-functional and not subject to purifying selection.
The global programme to eliminate lymphatic filariasis ( GPELF ) launched in 2000 aims to achieve the goal by interrupting transmission through annual single dose mass drug administration ( MDA ) of albendazole ( fixed dose 400 mg ) either with diethylcarbamazine citrate or ivermectin ( 150–200 µg/kg ) for at least 5–6 years. By 2010 the programme had made significant progress in 53 of the 72 endemic countries, delivering billions of treatments to nearly 897 million people in the world. In India, it has been reported that in 192 of 250 IUs Mf-prevalence was <1% and microfilaria levels <2% in monitored sites form the basis for stopping. Despite its rigour, this multi-step process is likely to miss sites with transmission potential ( ‘hotspots’ ) and its statistical assumptions for sampling and threshold levels for decision-making have not been validated. We addressed these issues in a large-scale epidemiological study in two primary health centres in Thanjavur district, India. The prevalence and intensity of antigenaemia in children and the sentinel/spot check sites were 0. 2%, respectively, and Ag-levels were <0. 004 respectively. Although the prevalence of infection at household and site levels were lower than the observed levels, we identified 7 “residual” ( i. e., ≥1. 0% of children, irrespective of Ag status ) hotspots. Antigeneemic persons were clustered in households and sites. Our findings indicate the need for developing good surveillance strategies for detecting hotspot infections, adopting evidence-based sampling strategies and evaluation unit size for TAS.
The use of the organophosphate larvicide temephos to water storage containers is a widely used dengue vector control method. However, the efficacy and community-effectiveness of this method remain unclear. This systematic review is the first that aims to assess the effectiveness of a single intervention or in combination with other interventions. A comprehensive literature search of 6 databases was performed ( PubMed, WHOLIS, GIFT, CDSR, EMBASE, Wiley ), grey literature and cross references were also screened for relevant studies. Data were extracted and methodological quality was assessed independently by two reviewers. 27 studies were included in this review ( 11 single interventions and 16 combined intervention studies ). All 11 studies showed consistently that using temepos led to a reduction in entomological indices, however, this was either not sustained over time or–as in the five remaining studies—failed to reduce the immature stages. In conclusion, when applied as a one intervention, temphos was found to be effective at suppressing the larval and pupal indices. The same effect has not been observed when other intervention methods were applied.
The cohesin complex holds sister chromatids together from the time of their duplication in S phase until their separation during mitosis. In budding yeast, the Ctf19 kinetochore subcomplex and the replication fork-associated factor, Csm3, are both important mediators of pericentromeric cohesion, but they act through distinct mechanisms. We show here that components of the Fission yeast CTF19 complex direct the increased association of cohesion with the centromere, which is essential for its functionality in holding sister centromeres together. Consistently, cells lacking CSM3 show additive cohesion defects in combination with mutants in the complex. Furthermore, delaying DNA replication rescues the cohesion defect observed in cells that do not have Cm3.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most widespread arbovirus with an estimated 100 million infections occurring every year. Dengue is emerging as a global health concern with the annual average number of DF/DHF cases reported to World Health Organization increasing dramatically in recent years. Metabolomics and lipidomics are rapidly emerging fields of ‘omics’ research that aim to study the global changes of small molecule metabolites and lipids in biological systems in response to biological stimuli or perturbations. The complex array of concurrent host physiologic changes has hampered a complete understanding of underlying molecular mechanisms of dengues pathogenesis. In the present study, we used a comprehensive approach to globally capture the human responses to DF. Sixty differential metabolites were identified in metabolomics analysis and the main metabolite classes were free fatty acids, acylcarnitines, phospholipids, and amino acids. Major perturbed metabolic pathways included fatty acid biosynthesis and β-oxidation, steroid hormone pathway, etc., suggesting the multifactorial nature of human host responses. Our global analyses revealed early anti-inflammatory responses working in concert to modulate early inflammatory processes, thus preventing the host from development of pathologies by excessive or prolonged inflammation.
Research on Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) has increased in recent decades, and significant need-gaps in diagnostic and treatment tools remain. Analysing bibliometric data from published research is a powerful method for revealing research efforts, partnerships and expertise. In this study, we aimed to identify and map research networks in Germany and their partners abroad to enable an informed and transparent evaluation of German contributions to the field. We found 1, 187 ( 4. 4% ) with German author affiliations that were published between 2002 and 2012 on 11 kinetoplastid and helminth diseases. Of those, 4, 007 individual authors and 863 research institutions were used to construct co-authorship networks. The majority of authors outside Germany were from high-income countries and Brazil. Collaborations with partners on the African continent remain scattered. Our findings contribute to prioritisation of efforts in German research at a time of impending local and global policy decisions.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) and soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) have been targeted since 2000 in Haiti, with a strong mass drug administration ( MDA ) program led by the Ministry of Public Health and Population and its collaborating international partners. By 2012, Haiti’s neglected tropical disease program had reached full national scale, and with such consistently good epidemiological coverage that it is now able to stop treatment for LF throughout almost all of the country. Essential to this success, however, has been in the detail of how MDAs were implemented. These key programmatic elements included ensuring strong community awareness through an evidence-based, multi-channel communication and education campaign facilitated by voluntary drug distributors; ensuring that respected community members were recruited and received appropriate training, supervision, identification and motivation; enforcing a “directly observed treatment” strategy; providing easy access to treatment though numerous distribution posts and a robust drug supply chain; and ensuring quality data collection that was used to guide and inform MMA strategies.
In all organisms, proper regulation of the cell cycle is critical to coordinate genome replication, segregation and cell division. In some groups of bacteria, e. g. Alphaproteobacteria, tight regulation is also necessary for the morphological and functional differentiation of cells. Sinorhizobium meliloti is an economically and ecologically important nitrogen-fixing symbiotic partner with specific legume hosts. During this symbiosis, the bacteria undergo an elaborate cellular differentiation within host root cells, which results in massive amplification of their genome, cell branching and/or elongation, and loss of reproductive capacity. Caulobacter crescentus CtrA is a master regulator of cell differentiation via the transcriptional and posttranslational levels. Recent research in S. melloti suggests that CTrA might also be key to cellular division, suggesting that this highly conserved genetic network can evolve, possibly to fit the diverse lifestyles of different bacteria.
Francisella tularensis is a highly infectious bacterium causing the zoonotic disease tularemia. Its ability to multiply and survive in macrophages is critical for its virulence. In the present work, we designed an in vitro negative selection method, based on the use of a bacteriostatic antibiotic, to recover intracellular growth-deficient mutants directly from a pool of mutants. We selected one mutant in a gene encoding a putative γ-glutamyl transpeptidase ( GGT ). This gene ( FTL_0766 ) was hence designated ggt. The mutant strain showed a severe growth defect and was strongly attenuated in mice. Here we present evidence that the gGT activity of the pathogen allows the utilization of glutathione and the available GSH, as a source of cysteine in the host cytosol, constitutes a paradigm of bacteria–host adaptation.
Protozoan parasites of the genus Leishmania alternate between flagellated, elongated extracellular promastigotes found in insect vectors, and round-shaped amphipathosomes enclosed in phagolysosome-like Parasitophorous Vacuoles ( PVs ) of infected mammalian host cells. In the present studies, macrophages infected with L. amazonensis were challenged with two species of parasites that differ in their biogenesis, morphology and parasite occupancy. Fusion was investigated by time-lapse image acquisition of living cells and inferred from the colocalization of parasite species in the same vacuole. Survival, multiplication and differentiation were also investigated. The results indicate that parasites, presumably customized by the parasite, do not fuse with each other. Additionally, a species-specific PV was required for destruction or differentiation – a requirement for which mechanisms remain unknown.
Eliciting broad tier 2 neutralizing antibodies ( nAbs ) is a major goal of HIV-1 vaccine research. Here we investigated the ability of native, membrane-expressed trimeric Env trimers to elicit NAbs. Unusually potent nAb titers developed in 2 of 8 rabbits immunized with virus-like particles ( VLPs ) expressing native trimer, followed by a protein boost. All 3 sera neutralized via quaternary epitopes and exploited natural gaps in the glycan defenses of the second conserved region of JR-FL gp120. Specifically, the N197 Glycan at residue 197 ( present in 98. 7% of Envs ) took advantage of an unusual absence of a binding site that limits access to this region. A bioinformatics analysis suggested shared features of one of our VLP and monoclonal antibody PG9, consistent with its trimomer-dependency. Our data provide new insights that may inform the future development of antibody vaccine design.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a necrotizing skin disease which is primarily affecting the subcutaneous tissue and can, if untreated, lead to extensive and severe lesions. While traditionally surgery has dominated the clinical management of BU, the introduction of the combination chemotherapy with oral rifampicin and intramuscular streptomycin greatly improved treatment and reduced recurrence rates. For reasons not fully understood, wound healing is delayed in a proportion of antibiotic treated BU patients. Therefore, we have performed immunohistochemical investigations to identify markers which may be suitable to monitor wound heal progression. Tissue specimens from eight patients with plaque lesions collected before, during and after chemotherapy were analyzed for the presence of a set of markers associated with connective tissue neo-formation, tissue remodeling and epidermal activation. These cells produced abundant extracellular matrix proteins, such as pro-collagen 1 and tenascin, and were found in fibronectin rich areas. After antibiotic treatment many cells, including myofibroblasts, revealed an activated phenotype as they showed ribosomal protein S6 phosphorylation, a marker for translation initiation. In addition, healing wounds revealed a reduction in the number of newly formed vessels and a slow return to conditions similar to healthy skin tissue.
Matching energy supply and demand is critical in the bioenergetic homeostasis of all cells. This is a special problem in neurons where high levels of energy expenditure may occur at sites remote from the cell body, given the remarkable length of axons and enormous variability of impulse activity over time. Positioning mitochondria at areas with high energy requirements is an essential solution to this problem, but it is not known how this is related to impulse conduction in vivo. Therefore, in order to study mitochondrial trafficking along resting and electrically active adult mammalian neurons, confocal imaging of saphenous nerves in anaesthetised mice was combined with electrical and pharmacological stimulation. We show that low frequency activity induced by electrical stimulation significantly increases anterograde and retrograde mitochondrial traffic in comparison with silent axon. In addition, stationary mitochondrialria are shorter, thus supplying additional mitochondrial to the trafficking population, presumably through enhanced fission. Mitochondria recruited to mobile populations do not accumulate near Nodes of Ranvier, which represent sites of particularly high metabolic demand. As the majority of mitochondrial biogenesis occurs at the nucleus, increased mitochondrial transport may represent a mechanism that ensures a uniform increase in mitochondrial density along the length and width of the cord during high impulse load.
Spondylocarpotarsal synostosis ( SCT ) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by progressive vertebral fusions and caused by loss of function mutations in Filamin B ( FLNB ). FlNB acts as a signaling scaffold by linking the actin cytoskleteon to signal transduction systems, yet the disease mechanisms are poorly understood. Employing a Flnb knockout mouse model, we found morphologic and molecular evidence that the intervertebral discs ( IVDs ) of flnb–/–mice undergo rapid and progressive degeneration during postnatal development. We show that conversion of the AF cells into chondrocytes is coincident with upregulated TGFβ signaling via Smad2/3 and BMP induced p38 signaling as well as sustained activation of canonical and noncanonical target genes p21 and Ctgf. These findings provide new insights into the molecular causes of degenerative disc disease.
Viruses have evolved a plethora of mechanisms to target host antiviral responses. Here, we propose a yet uncharacterized mechanism of immune regulation by the orthomyxovirus Thogoto virus ( THOV ) ML protein through engaging general transcription factor TFIIB. ML generates a depleted nuclear environment by re-localizing it into the cytoplasm. Although a broad effect on gene expression would be anticipated, ML expression, delivery of an ML-derived functional domain or experimental depletion of TFIB only leads to altered expression of a limited number of genes. Our data indicate that TF IIB is critically important for the de novo recruitment of Pol II to promoter start sites and that it may not be required for regulated expression from paused promoters.
Human parvovirus B19 is a small, non-enveloped, single stranded DNA ( ssDNA ) virus that infects human erythroid progenitor cells ( EPCs ) in the bone marrow and fetal liver, and can cause hematological disorders such as slapped cheek syndrome in children. Currently, there are no vaccines or specific antiviral therapeutics that can prevent or treat B 19V-induced H1-to-H2-phase arrest. Here, we investigated the mechanism underlying the function of the putative C-terminal transactivation domain ( TAD2 ) within NS1, which was itself responsible for the ATR ( ataxia-telangiectasia mutated and Rad3-related ) activation. The results confirm that the N2 domain, but not the endonuclease and helicase domains, plays a pivotal role in NS-mediated cell cycle arrest at late S- and G2 phase. Mechanistically, NS2 transactivated cellular gene expression through the TAC2 protein. Activated ATRs phosphorylated CDC25C at serine 216, in turn inactivated the cyclin B/CDK1 complex, without affecting nuclear import of this complex. Importantly, our results show that AT-CHK 1-CDC25-C-CDKA1 pathway was activated during B-19V infection of infected cells.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most prevalent, medically important mosquito-borne flavivirus. Disease ranges from uncomplicated to life-threatening disease, characterized by endothelial dysfunction and vascular leakage. In this study, we demonstrate that the closely-related West Nile virus NS1 triggers localized vascular leak in the dorsal dermis of wild-type B6 mice and that this effect is independent of inflammatory cytokines and is dependent on components of the glycocalyx-like layer. We also show that DENNV nonstructural protein 1, which is synthesized by infected cells as a monomer ( 48 kDa ) and released into the extracellular milieu as an hexamer, is not involved in vascular hyperpermeability in vivo. Taken together, these data indicate a role for the interplay between inflammatory mediators and endothelium cell-intrinsic pathways.
How eukaryotic cells position their cleavage furrow for cytokinesis is a key question in cell biology. In budding yeast, the assembly of a septin ring at the future site of bud emergence is the first step towards cytokineis. The integrity of this ring is crucial for the proper spindle positioning, and the SPindle position checkpoint ( SPOC ). This checkpoint delays mitotic exit as long as the anaphase spindles do not properly align with the division axis. Here, we show that the ubiquitin-ligases Dma1 and Dm2 control septins dynamics and SPoc by promoting the efficient recruitment of Elm1 to the bud neck. Indeed, dma2 mutant cells show reduced levels of the Elm-dependent activation of Kin4. Artificial recruitment is sufficient to re-establish a normal function and a proficient response in the same cells. Altogether, our data indicate that both the integrity and Spindle Position checkpoint are intimately linked.
Humans inhabit a remarkably diverse range of environments, and adaptation through natural selection has likely played a central role in the capacity to survive and thrive in extreme climates. Unlike numerous studies that used only population genetic data to search for evidence of selection, here we scan the human genome for selection signals by identifying the SNPs with the strongest correlations between allele frequencies and climate across 61 worldwide populations. We find a striking enrichment of genic and nonsynonymous alleles relative to non-genic variants among those that are strongly correlated with these climate variables. Among the most extreme signals, several overlap with those from GWAS, including those associated with pigmentation and autoimmune diseases. Further, we find strong signals in gene sets related to UV radiation, infection and immunity and cancer. Our results imply that adaptations to climate shaped the spatial distribution of variation in humans.
The short QT syndrome ( SQTS ) is a genetically heterogeneous condition characterized by abbreviated intervals and an increased susceptibility to arrhythmia and sudden death in affected patients. This simulation study identifies a viable tissue substrate in the rapid-delayed rectifier K+ current ( IKr ) -linked SQT1 variant of the QTS. Markov chain models were found to be superior to Hodgkin-Huxley ( HH ) models in reproducing experimental data regarding effects of N588K mutation on KCNH2-encoded hERG potassium channel subunits. These ionic channels were then incorporated into 1D and 2D idealised and realistic transmural ventricular tissue simulations and into a 3D anatomical model. The results of our study provide a clear link between the kinetic changes to IhERG/IKr in SQTR1 and altered ventral tissue electrophysiology that favours re-entrant excitation waves.
A variety of simple models of collective behavior have been proposed to understand the collective motion of animals. These models can be insightful but may lack important elements necessary to predict the motion. Adding more detail increases predictability but can make models too complex to be informative. Here we report that deep attention networks can obtain a model of the social interaction that is simultaneously predictive and insightful thanks to an organization in modules. When using simulated trajectories, the model recovers the ground-truth interaction rule used to generate them, as well as the number of interacting neighbours. The model obtains that interactions between pairs can approximately be described as repulsive, attractive or as alignment, but only when moving slowly. At high velocities, interactions correspond only to alignment or alignment mixed with repulsion at close distances. Weights are higher for neighbours that are close, in a collision path or moving faster in frontal and lateral locations.
Drug resistant HIV is a major threat to the long-term efficacy of antiretroviral treatment. Around 10% of ART-naïve patients in Europe are infected with drug-resistant HIV type 1. Hence it is important to understand the dynamics of transmitted drug resistance evolution. In this study we employ a phylodynamic approach to quantify the fitness costs of major resistance mutations in the Swiss HIV cohort study ( SHCS ). The viral phylogeny reflects the transmission tree, which we model using stochastic birth–death-sampling processes with two types: hosts infected by a sensitive or resistant strain. This allows quantification of fitness cost as the ratio between transmission rates of hosts in Switzerland or even later in other countries.
Unicellular organisms are particularly exposed to the environment, and the major changes in microbial gene expression programs arise as a consequence of extracellular stresses. Most regulation is achieved by transcription events, with a shift of the transcriptional machinery from growth- to stress-related genes. Therefore, the classical large complexes which contribute to a strong and efficient RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) gene transcription, such as Mediator and SAGA, are important for stress survival. However, it has also been shown that Elongator mediates the modification of some tRNAs, modulating translation efficiency. In this study, we show here that the fission yeast Sin3/Elp3, a histone acetyl transferase, is essential for oxidative stress. We have determined that cells lacking the H2O2-dependent transcription factor Atf1 and Pcr1 cannot modify the uridine wobble nucleoside of certain tRNA molecules, which are also required for normal tolerance to H3O. Our results suggest that stress phenotypes are caused by defects in the regulation of transcription factors.
Primate lentivirus nef is required for sustained virus replication in vivo and accelerated progression to AIDS. While exploring the mechanism by which Nef increases the infectivity of cell-free virions, we failed to detect an effect of this putative modification on the quantity of virion-associated Env. To probe for qualitative changes in HIV-1 sensitivity to agents that target distinct features of the membrane proximal external region ( MPER ) of TMgp41. We found that this activity is conserved in a retrovirus that does not encode any of these proteins. Given the reported membrane-dependence of CD4 recognition by 2F5 and 4E10, in contrast to Z13e1, the data here is consistent with a model in which the ability to enhance virus infection is genetically separable from other functions such as the capacity to downregulate CD3, but not by other nAbs and other reagents targeting gp120. This newly discovered activity for nef has important implications for anti-HIV immunity and AIDS pathogenesis.
Cholangiocarcinoma is one of the most common malignant cancers in Southeast Asia, with incidence rates ranging from 93. 8 to 317. 6 per 100, 000 people/year in some districts of Northeast Thailand alone. Chronic infections by the food-borne human liver fluke Opisthorchis viverrini have been associated with the occurrence of CCA in several Southeast Asian countries ( including Thailand and Laos ), which has led to the inclusion of this parasite amongst the Group 1 carcinogens in the International Agency for Research on Cancer. In the present study, we utilized high-throughput ( Illumina ) sequencing and advanced bioinformatic analyses of sequence data to generate and characterize the first reference transcriptome of Bithynia siamensis goniomphalos, the snail intermediate host of Puntius spp.. The annotated dataset provided herein represents a ready-to-use molecular resource for the discovery of molecular pathways underlying susceptibility and resistance mechanisms and for comparative analyses with other platyhelminths including schistosomes.
Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae and M. lepromatosis that primarily affects the skin and peripheral nervous system. After being exposed to the pathogen, most of the individuals present resistance to infection. Those who develop the disease can fit within a broad clinical spectrum with two antagonistic poles, from paucibacillary tuberculoid to multibacytous disease. This clinical diversity relies on genetic variants of both the host and environmental factors. We investigated polymorphisms in interleukin 23 receptor ( IL23R ), nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing 2 ( NOD2 ) and human leukocyte antigens–antigen D related ( HLA-DR ) genes as associated with susceptibility to leprosy. The results lead us to suggest a regulatory role for CR1 polymorphism on mRNA and sCR1 levels, probably by enhancing parasite phagocytosis and inflammation.
Metabolomics provides a powerful tool to analyse physiological and disease-induced biological states on the molecular level, taking into account both the organism's intrinsic properties, i. e. genetic factors, and the effects of lifestyle, diet and environment. However, many published studies did not analyse their data stratified by sex. This study investigated sex-specific differences of serum metabolite concentrations and their underlying genetic determination. For discovery and replication we used more than 3, 300 independent individuals from KORA F3 and F4 to measure 131 metabolites, including amino acids, phosphatidylcholines, sphingomyelins, acylcarnitines and C6-sugars. A linear regression approach revealed significant concentration differences between males and females for 102 out of 131 metabolites ( p-values<3. 8×10−4; Bonferroni-corrected threshold ). We showed that specific genetic variants in metabolism-related genes depict sexual dimorphism. Our study provides new important insights into the contribution and complex interaction of genes, proteins and metabolites in disease.
Genome-scale metabolic networks provide a comprehensive structural framework for modeling genotype-phenotype relationships through flux simulations. The solution space for the metabolic flux state of the cell is typically very large and optimization-based approaches are often necessary for predicting the active metabolic state under specific environmental conditions. In this study, we propose a new method, Minimization of Metabolites Balance ( MiMBl ), which accounts for stoichiometry representation in the objective function by mapping the flux space into the metabolite turnover space. We show that the resulting optimization problem is sensitive towards the use of numerically different but biochemically equivalent models and thereby makes biological interpretation intrinsically subjective and ambiguous.
Landscape may affect the distribution of infectious diseases by influencing the population density and dispersal of hosts and vectors. Plague ( Yersinia pestis infection ) is a highly virulent, re-emerging disease, the ecology of which has been scarcely studied in Africa. Human seroprevalence data for the major plague focus of Madagascar suggest that plague spreads heterogeneously across the landscape as a function of the relief. We therefore investigated the relationship between disease distribution and the genetic structure of rat populations from four geographic areas differing in topology, each covering about 150–200 km2 within the Madagascan focus. As expected, rodent populations clearly displayed a more marked genetic pattern with increasing relief than previously reported for humans. Genetic diversity estimates suggested plague distribution is not related everywhere to the effective dispersals of rats. In the highlands, plague dissemination cannot be accounted for solely by the effectiveness of plague reservoirs, suggesting that human social activities may also be involved in spreading the disease in rat and human populations.
The heptalaminate-covered, syncytial tegument is an important anatomical adaptation that enables schistosome parasites to maintain long-term, intravascular residence in definitive hosts. Investigation of the proteins present in this surface layer and the immune responses elicited by them during infection is crucial to our understanding of host/parasite interactions. In this study, we comprehensively re-analyse the S. mansoni genome to identify an expanded repertoire of eleven, SmLy6A-K, and describe the serological immune response against two surface-bound representatives ( SmCD59a and Sm6B ) within a cohort of infected Ugandan males before and after praziquantel treatment. These results expand the number of members found within the parasite and provide strong evidence that the previously identified vaccine candidate Sm29 is a unique double uPAR/Ly5 domain-containing representative. Furthermore, post-treatment IgG1 ( as well as IgE ) antibody levels against the two surfaces-associated representatives significantly drop when compared to rising levels of sub-surface SmTAL1. Collectively, these findings expand our knowledge of parasite biology and immunological responses in endemic communities and highlight the need for developing an immunoprophylactic vaccine.
Cells in the Drosophila retina have well-defined morphologies that are attained during tissue morphogenesis. We present a computer simulation of the epithelial tissue in which the global interfacial energy between cells is minimized. The simulations reproduce the geometries of wild-type and mutant cells, distinguish features of cadherin dynamics, and emphasize the importance of adhesion protein biogenesis and its timing with respect to cell remodeling.
MT1-MMP is a potent invasion-promoting membrane protease employed by aggressive cancer cells to degrade extracellular matrix ( ECM ). However, the extent to which the turnover contributes to the degradation at invadopodia has not been clarified. To approach this problem, we first performed FRAP ( Fluorescence Recovery after Photobleaching ) experiments with fluorescence-tagged MT1 1, and found a very rapid recovery in these experiments, approximated by double-exponential plots with time constants of 26 s and 259 s. The recovery depended primarily on vesicle transport, but negligibly on lateral diffusion. Next we constructed a computational model employing the observed kinetics of our experiments and simulations. Our simulations have shown a synergetic effect on the inhibition of the ECMA degradation by simultaneous reductions of both the protein turnover rate and the Vesicular content of it. Furthermore, our simulations suggest that there was a nonlinear and marked reduction in the rate of degradation if both factors were reduced simultaneously. Thus our model provides a new in silico tool to design and evaluate intervention strategies in cancer cell invasion.
The development of drug resistance in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) represents a major public health obstacle. Drug resistance is transmitted from one infected individual to another, rendering standard first line therapies ineffective and necessitating costlier therapies for treatment-naïve patients. Despite the increasing prevalence of human-drug resistance, we still have an incomplete understanding of how the virus emerges and spreads spatially within an individual. Understanding the spatial landscape of virus in the blood could help determine the best way to sample the viral population, monitor transmission chains, and design eradication strategies.
Diffusible molecules, such as morphogens, growth factors, cytokines and chemokines, play many important roles in solid tissues, among which are conveying positional information, coordinating proliferation with differentiation, and enabling collective responses to disturbances. However, whether such feedback also plays an important role in tissue morphogenesis has yet to be explored. Here we use mathematical modeling to show that a particular feedback architecture in which both positive and negative feedback signals act on stem and/or progenitor cells leads to the appearance of bistable or bi-modal growth behaviors, ultrasensitivity to external growth cues, local growth-driven budding, self-sustaining elongation and the triggering of the formation of lamellar fingers. Such behaviors arise not through regulation of cell cycle speeds, but through the control of stem cell populations to automatically coordinate their behaviors so that net renewal is maintained at exactly 50%—the value required for homeostasis. Even though the spatial patterns that arise in this setting are the result of interactions between diffusesible factors with antagonistic effects, morphogenic is not the consequence of Turing-type instabilities.
Myopia, or nearsightedness, is the most common eye disorder, resulting primarily from excess elongation of the eye. The etiology of myopia is poorly understood. Here we performed the largest ever genome-wide association study ( 45, 771 participants ) on age of onset and identified 22 novel associations ( ), two of which are replications of earlier associations with refractive error. Ten of these novel and two previously identified associations replicate in a separate cohort of 8, 323 participants who reported whether they had been diagnosed with near sight, and if so, at what age. We expect that these findings will drive new research into the development of human eye disorders.
Like other animals, lampreys have a central pattern generator ( CPG ) circuit that activates muscles for locomotion and also adjusts the activity to respond to sensory inputs from the environment. Such a feedback system is crucial for responding appropriately to unexpected perturbations, but it is also active during normal unperturbed steady swimming and influences the baseline swimming pattern. In this study, we investigate different functional forms of body curvature-based sensory feedback and evaluate their effects on swimming energetics and kinematics, since little is known experimentally about the functional form of this feedback. We show that two types of feedback, each consistent with experimental results on lamprey proprioceptive sensory receptors, excites or inhibits the oscillators on the same side, depending on their sign of a chosen gain parameter, and has the opposite effect on them on opposite side. This feedback produces an effect that is similar to the excitatory effect of edge cells and of muscle afferents in cats and other tetrapods.
The global pandemic of Human Immunodeficiency Virus ( HIV ) infections is being driven mainly by the group M lineage of HIV-1, which crossed the species barrier from chimpanzees to humans about 100 years ago. By the time it started to spread beyond its epicentre in Central Africa, the virus had already accumulated considerable sequence diversity, and the global molecular diversity still bears the clear footprint of the strong founder effects that characterized this initial expansion. The risk and pace of these processes needs to be better characterized. We developed a simple model of sexually transmitted HIV epidemics that allowed us to monitor the competition dynamics of distinct virus strains with varying rates of transmission. Simulations were parameterized based on empirical data; we tested scenarios in which the second strain was introduced into a population where the first strain had established a steady-state epidemic. To become dominant over a time scale of decades, both strains needed considerable ( >25% ) advantage in transmission efficiency over the resident strain. However, inhibition of superinfection, depletion of highly connected hubs in the network, one-time acute peak of infectiousness contributed to the inhibition effect. Our simulations confirmed a strong first comer advantage for HIV at the population level.
During biological development, evolving forms are marked by distinct functionalities. An interesting example is the organization of myofibrils in striated muscle cells. As the myocyte matures, the contractile cytoskeleton is rearranged from an irregularly dispersed pattern into tightly organized bundles spanning the length, rather than the width, of the cell. This is important because changes in muscle structure accompany not only morphogenesis, but also pathogenesis. We hypothesized that geometric cues in the extracellular space can organize the intracellular architecture and potentiate directed sarcomeregenesis. Using a computational model, we developed a novel method for micropatterning on soft substrates and were able to engineer myocytes to assume shapes that are not commonly observed in vitro. Together, these results suggest that the self-assembly and -organization of muscle is facilitated by a symmetry-breaking event that is potentiated by either a geometric cue or a random event.
The symbiotic bacterium Wolbachia is currently being trialled as a biocontrol agent in several countries to reduce dengue transmission. In this work, we examined the potential of Wolbachia to spread to infect all individuals within wild mosquito populations, but requires a high rate of maternal transmission, strong cytoplasmic incompatibility and low fitness costs in the host in order to do so. Additionally, extensive differences in climate, field-release protocols, urbanization level and human density amongst the sites where this bacterialium has been deployed have limited comparison and analysis. We examined key phenotypic effects of the wMel strain in laboratory Aedes aegypti mosquitoes with a Brazilian genetic background to characterize its invasive potential. First, to understand the influence of different urban landscapes on the likelihood of mosquito survival, and to develop optimized release strategies for each field site, in preparation for the release of a new strain from the Eliminate Dengue Program.
Histone lysine methylation ( H3K4me ) is an important epigenetic modification in regulating chromatin structure and gene expression in eukaryotic cells. In this work, we identified a JmjC domain-containing protein, JMJ703, as a histone methylase that specifically demethylates mono-, di- and trimethylated H 3K 4me in rice. Loss-of-function mutation of the gene affected stem elongation and plant growth, which may be related to increased expression of cytokinin oxidase genes in the mutant. Analysis of crystal structure revealed a general structural similarity with mammalian and yeast JMJD2 proteins. However, several specific features were observed. Key residues that interact with cofactors Fe ( II ) and N-oxalylglycine were identified and were shown to be essential for the enzymatic activity of this class of enzymes.
The HIV-1 capsid is involved in all infectious steps from reverse transcription to integration site selection, and is the target of multiple host cell and pharmacologic ligands. However, how these diverse phenotypes are achieved is not well understood. Here we show that a multi-subunit interface formed exclusively within CA hexamers mediates binding to linear epitopes within cellular cofactors NUP153 and CPSF6. This interaction is competed for by the antiretroviral compounds PF74 and BI-2. Each ligand is anchored via a shared phenylalanine-glycine ( FG ) motif to a pocket within the N-terminal domain of one monomer. The first interface is conformationally dynamic, but binding is accommodated by only one conformational site. These results reveal that multiple binding sites are required to perturb cofactor dependency.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti transmits some of the most important human arboviruses, including dengue, yellow fever and chikungunya viruses. It has a large genome containing many repetitive sequences, which has resulted in the genome being poorly assembled — there are 4, 758 scaffolds, few of which have been assigned to a chromosome. To allow the mapping of genes affecting disease transmission, we have improved the current genome assembly by scoring a high number of SNPs in recombinant progeny from a cross between two strains of a mosquito and used these to generate a genetic map. We found that there were very large regions of suppressed recombination around the centromeres, and that these can extend to as much as 47% of chromosomes. This work illustrates the utility of this new genome Assembly by re-mapping the genetic susceptibility of Ae. aedesi to the human parasite Brugia malayi and generating a list of candidate genes that could be affecting the trait.
Mosquito Aedes aegypti, vector of dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever viruses, is an important target of vector control programs in tropical countries. Most mosquito surveillance programs are still based on the traditional household larval surveys, despite the availability of new trapping devices. We report the results of a multicentric entomological survey using four types of traps. The results show that traps performed better than the larv survey in measuring the seasonal pattern of mosquito infestation in all cities, as measured by each of the four traps in terms of their sensitivity to detect mosquito density variation.
The human cytidine deaminase APOBEC3G is a potent inhibitor of retroviruses and transposable elements and is able to deaminate cytidines to uridine in single-stranded DNA replication intermediates. However, there is mounting evidence that the structure-function organization of this protein is not only monomeric, but can also assemble into large RNP complexes that accumulate in cellular microdomains that are associated with RNA regulation, such as P-bodies and stress granules. Using yeast two-hybrid assays, co-immunoprecipitation, and chemical crosslinking, we show that hydrophobic residues within the enzymatically inactive N-terminal CDA domain mediate oligomerization of the protein. This coincides with packaging into HIV-1 virions. In addition to the importance of specific residues in this pocket, oligomersization is also shown to be RNA-dependent. Our results suggest that occupation of a positively charged pocket by RNA promotes A1G virion packaging and antiviral function.
Many agriculturally, evolutionarily, and medically important characters vary in a quantitative fashion. Unfortunately, the genes and sequence variants accounting for this variation remain largely unknown due to a variety of biological and technical challenges. Drosophila melanogaster contains high levels of sequence variation and low linkage disequilibrium, allowing us to dissect the effects of many causative variants within a single locus. Here, we take advantage of these features to identify and characterize the sequence polymorphisms that comprise major effect QTL alleles segregating at the bric-a-brac genomic region. We show that the large effects on cuticular pigmentation reflect a cumulative impact of polymorphism that affect three functional regions: a promoter, a tissue-specific enhancer and a Polycomb response element. Our results establish that sequence variations in regions flanking experimentally validated functional elements can have a significant impact on transcriptional activity and phenotype. These findings have important design and conceptual implications for basic and medical genomics.
Streptococcus pneumoniae remains a persistent cause of invasive and mucosal disease in humans despite the widespread use of antibiotics and vaccines. The resilience of this organism is due to its capacity for adaptation through the uptake and incorporation of new genetic material from the surrounding microbial community. DNA uptake is controlled by a tightly regulated quorum sensing system that is triggered by the extracellular accumulation of competence stimulating peptide ( CSP ). In this study, we demonstrate that C SP can stimulate the production of a diverse array of blp bacteriocins. This cross stimulation occurs through increased production and secretion of the pheromone, BlpC, and requires a functional competence regulatory system. We show that a highly conserved motif in the promoter and its transporter mediates the upregulation by competence stimulation. Our results suggest that co-stimulation of bacteria with competence provides an adaptive advantage.
Poliovirus IRES-mediated translation requires the functions of certain canonical as well as non-canonical factors for the recruitment of ribosomes to the viral RNA. The interaction between cellular proteins PCBP2 and SRp20 has been previously described, and these two proteins were shown to function synergistically in viral translation. In this study, we focused on the role of SRP20, a family of splicing factors that function in constitutive and alternative splice site selection in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Work described here demonstrates that the interaction of cellular proteinases 2A and 3C dramatically re-localizes from the nuclei to cytoplasm of infected cells during the course of infection. Importantly, this interaction partially co-sediment in translation initiation complex-containing fractions, corroborating our previous in vitro interaction data. Furthermore, the data presented implicate the presence of both proteins in virus translational initiation complexes. These results support a model in which RNA translation is shut-down via cleavage of translation factors by RNA binding proteins.
The neural crest ( NC ) is a transient population of embryonic stem cells that gives rise to numerous cell types, including the glia and neurons of the peripheral and enteric nervous systems and the melanocytes of skin and hair. Mutations in genes and genetic pathways regulating NC development lead to a wide spectrum of human developmental disorders collectively called neurocristopathies. To identify molecular pathways that alter the patterning of NC cells, we established an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea ( ENU ) mutagenesis screen utilizing a mouse model sensitized for NC defects, Sox10LacZ/+. We identified and mapped four heritable loci, called modifier of expression pattern 1–4 ( msp1-4 ), which show altered NC patterns. In homozygous mice, the mutation does not alter protein expression, however, it is sufficient to impair ERBB3 receptor function and activation. The mutant protein is expressed on the cell surface, but its ligand-induced phosphorylation is dramatically reduced by this mutation. These findings highlight the importance of a mutated residue for ERbb3 signaling.
Schistosoma spp. is a parasitic worm that is transmitted by water contact between humans and other animals. In endemic communities, infection intensities peak in early adolescence and decline thereafter, with the majority of these infections occurring amongst the world's poorest populations in sub-Saharan Africa. Although drug treatment with praziquantel has helped to reduce the burden of the disease, it is very difficult to halt transmission solely through drug treatments. This is because, like with many other human helminth infections, individuals remain susceptible to reinfection after treatment. Here, we investigate the influence that age, sex and ethnic background have on susceptibility to infection. We use individual estimates of cercarial exposure and multivariable methods in an attempt to remove noise created by environmental and behavioural heterogeneities. Age-related differences in infection were not explained by exposure, however, and appeared linked to the balance of IgE and IgG4 against the tegumental antigen SmTAL1 ( formerly Sm22. 6 ), which itself was significantly related to resistance. These findings highlight the benefit of taking a multidisciplinary approach in complex field settings; it allows the ecology of a population to be understood and thus more robust conclusions are made.
Clonorchiasis is the most widespread parasitic fluke in East Asia. It results from ingestion of its metacercariae excyst by consumption of raw or undercooked freshwater fish. Adult worms produce excretory and secretory proteins, sperms, and eggs at 3 to 4 weeks after infection. Despite several pathological changes, most infected people hardly notice this infection for a long time. Therefore an accurate diagnosis and subsequent cure in early stage of infection is essential to prevent complications caused by infection of C. sinensis.
Drug resistance has emerged as a huge problem in many areas of medicine from cancer to infectious diseases. This is leading to the development of novel therapeutic strategies. In this study, we hypothesized that unbiased genome-wide screens could reveal novel candidate proteins that could be therapeutically targeted to allow effective treatment of antimicrobial drug resistant infections. To test this hypothesis we performed an unbiased genetic screen, performed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae expressing a Candida glabrata PDR1+ gain-of-function allele. Loss of function mutations in this gene are the principal mediators of fluconazole resistance in the human fungal pathogen. Eighteen synthetically lethal genetic mutants were identified in cells expressing the mutant allele, and one mutant, lacking the histone acetyltransferase Gcn5, was investigated further. Deletion or drug-mediated inactivation of the gene caused a lethal phenotype in C. cells that had synthetic lethal genes deleted or chemically inactivated. Thus, the data generated from this work provides proof of concept that synthetic genetic screens can identify novel candidates for drug resistance.
Positive-strand RNA viruses pose a great threat to public health because of their simplicity and evolvability. Introduction of a modestly-sized, mRNA-sense genome is sufficient to commandeer the cell, establish infection and produce thousands of progeny in a matter of only hours. Among the least understood aspects is the eclipse phase, the events post-entry but prior to exponential amplification of the genome and assembly of infectious virus. We use poliovirus ( PV ), a type virus in the Enterovirus genus of Picornaviridae family of viruses, as our model system. Here, we exploit two PV mutants, termed EG and GG, which exhibit aberrant proteolytic processing of P3 precursor that substantially delays the onset of genome replication and/or impairs virus assembly, to illuminate the pathway of formation of PV-induced membranous structures. Our results are consistent with PV inducing temporally distinct structures ( organelles ) during the PV lifecycle and suggest that membrane remodeling may be set by both the rate of polymerase chain reaction and the capacity to yield 3AB and 3CD proteins.
Chagas disease is a neglected trypanosomiasis with enormous social and economic impact in most countries of Latin America. Despite efforts to reduce the transmission of the parasite by controlling the hematophagous triatomine insect vector, the World Health Organization estimates that 10 million people are infected worldwide, with another 25 million at risk. T. cruzi's complex life cycle involves two replicative forms: the epimastigote, in the gut of insect vectors, and the bloodstream trypomastigeote released from infected cells into the blood of mammals. The two infective non-replicative form are the metacyclic and intracellular forms, which release from the infected mammal's blood into blood. In order to develop new and more effective drugs with fewer side effects than the currently available chemotherapy, significant efforts have been made focusing on cruzain enzyme as a promising target and compound K11777. Here, we successfully used integrated in silico and in vitro approaches, combined with X-ray crystallography as an orthogonal tool, to discover new inhibitors targeting the enzyme and parasite. Using compound Nequimed42 as precursor, an inhibition mechanism was established in which the 2-acetamidothiophene-3-carboxamide group was identified as essential for parasite and enzyme inhibition activities.
The yellow fever ( YF ) virus is considered the prototype member of the family Flaviviridae, which includes several other viruses of medical importance, such as the dengue, Japanese encephalitis, tick-borne, and West Nile viruses. In the last 70 years, more than 500 million people around the world have been vaccinated with the 17D/17DD virus-attenuated vaccines with a remarkable record of safety and efficacy. However, severe side-effects resulting from vaccination continue to be reported. This study presents the design of two non-viral DNA-based antigen formulations and the characterization of their expression and immunological properties. The two DNA constructs consist of DNA encoding the full-length envelope protein ( p/YFE ) or the lysosomal-associated membrane protein signal ( LAMP-1 ), aimed at diverting antigen processing/presentation through the major histocompatibility complex II precursor compartments. Both DNA formulations were able to induce very strong T-cell responses of similar magnitude against almost all epitopes that are also generated by the yF 17DD vaccine and were found to elicit enhanced immune responses compared with vaccines encoding unmodified native antigens.
Vibrio cholerae, the bacterium responsible for the diarrheal illness cholera, is naturally found in the marine environment. In this niche, this pathogen forms biofilms on the shells of microscopic crustaceans. This biofilm formation on chitin is also important for promoting transmission to its human host. Chitins are the second most abundant biopolymer of the planet, and the pathway for degradation and utilization of this carbon and nitrogen source is conserved among the Vibrionaceae. Here, we use an unbiased transposon mutant screen to identify factors downstream of ChiS activation. We find that the nucleoid occlusion protein SlmA binds directly to the chb operon promoter, which encodes the genes required for transcriptional activation and for chitsobiose utilization. Using point mutations that disrupt the DNA-binding, but not nuclein-coding, transcription factor, our study identifies a novel role for this protein as a transcription regulator in addition to a cell division licensing factor.
Dynamic modeling is essential for understanding the behavior of biological systems. A major factor that has hindered wider adoption is the lack of easy-to-use computational frameworks that facilitate access to non-expert users. In this work, we present a nonlinear programming ( NLP ) framework for the scalable solution of parameter estimation problems that arise in dynamic modeling. The proposed framework uses cutting-edge modeling and solution tools which are computationally efficient, robust, and easy to use. Specifically, our framework avoids repetitive simulations of the dynamic model and enables fully algebraic model implementations and computation of derivatives. We also create large instances to show that the framework is scalable and can solve problems with up to 2, 352 parameters, 1, 704 experimental data points in less than 15 minutes.
West Nile virus ( WNV ) has become the leading cause of mosquito-borne epidemic encephalitis in the United States ( US ) and now poses a significant public health risk. The ability to track changes in gene expression following viral infection is paramount to understanding viral pathogenesis. This study was undertaken to evaluate the nCounter, a high-throughput digital expression system, as a means to better understand the inflammatory response against West Nile viruses in an outbred Swiss Webster ( SW ) mouse model over the course of infection. Expression analysis of spleen, lung, liver, kidney and brain of SW mice infected with wNV revealed that Cxcl10 and Il12b are differentially expressed in all tissues tested except kidney. Data stratification of positively confirmed infected and non-infected tissues allowed differentiation of the systemic inflammatory gene response from tissue-specific responses arising from infection in a common model. Significant ( p<0. 05 ) decrease in C3ar1 was found, while Il3 and Mbl2 were significantly up-regulated. Similar gene and protein expression kinetics were found for Ccl2, CCl3, ccl4 and C5 and correlated with the presence of infectious virus.
Rabies is a zoonotic viral disease that affects the poorest and under-resourced populations living in low and middle income countries, and its incidence is on the rise in several countries. In Mozambique, rabies is preventable and effective control measures are available, but the number of deaths is still high and an estimated 59, 000 people die from Rabies each year in the world, with Asia and sub-Saharan Africa accounting for more than 95% of these deaths.
Febrile seizures ( FS ) are the most common seizure disorder of early childhood, and exhibit a prevalence of 2–5% in European and North American children. Large FS families reported in the clinical literature support a genetic etiology for FS in first-degree relatives and this incidence is four times higher if there is a family history of FS. In Dravet syndrome, a normally developing child at 2 to12 months of age has convulsive seizures that are prolonged and indiscriminately lateralized. The myoclonic attacks disappear after 4–7 years, while these children continue to have generalized tonic-clonic, clonic and complex partial seizures with common episodes of nonconvulsive status epilepticus.
A major problem in biology is to understand how complex tissue shapes may arise through growth. In many cases this process involves preferential growth along particular orientations raising the question of how this orientation is specified. Here we develop and apply a framework and software implementation for the alternative polarity-based axiality approach, which we call the Growing Polarised Tissue ( GPT ) framework. This framework was developed with plant growth in mind, although it may also be useful for modelling animal systems where cell movement is limited. We illustrate the value of the framework for understanding morphogenesis by applying it to a growing Snapdragon flower and indicate how the underlying hypotheses may be tested by computational simulation.
During early human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infection multiple CD8+ T cell responses are elicited almost simultaneously. These responses exert strong selective pressures on different parts of HIV’s genome, and select for mutations that escape recognition and are thus beneficial to the virus. Some studies reveal that the later these escape mutations emerge, the more slowly they go to fixation. This pattern of escape rate decrease ( ERD ) can arise by distinct mechanisms. In particular, in large populations with high beneficial mutation rates interference among different escape strains –an effect that can emerge in evolution with asexual reproduction and results in delayed fixation times of beneficial mutations compared to sexual reproduction– could significantly impact the escape rates of mutations. To address these issues, we developed a multilocus Wright-Fisher model of early HIV infection that incorporates selection, mutation and recombination, serving as a null-model for interference. We also derived an interference-free null model assuming initial neutral evolution before immune response elicitation. Our results confirm that interference effects should be considered when analyzing HIV escape mutation patterns.
The 5-year survival of non-small cell lung cancer patients can be as low as 1% in advanced stages. For patients with resectable tumors, the successful choice of preoperative chemotherapy is critical to eliminate micrometastasis and improve operability. In silico experimentations can suggest the optimal treatment protocol for each patient based on their own multiscale data. A determinant for reliable predictions is the a priori estimation of the drugs’ cytotoxic efficacy on cancer cells for a given treatment. The core simulation model of tumor cell multiplication stems from previous work of In Silico Oncology-In Silica Medicine Group, ICCS, National Technical University of Athens. Among others, it incorporates the cancer related mechanism of uncontrolled proliferation, population heterogeneity, hypoxia and treatment resistance. It incorporates tumor volumetric data at two time points, before and after or during treatment, and takes into account the effect of cancer microenvironment and cell repopulation on treatment outcome. We have developed a methodological framework that enables the application of mechanistic simulation models on the retrospective analysis of accumulated clinical data in a systemic way.
Bacterial biofilms on medical implants are a major health threat due to their high levels of tolerance to multiple antibiotics. In contrast to well-characterized inherited antibiotic resistance, molecular mechanisms leading to reversible and transient antibiotic tolerance displayed by biofilm bacteria are still poorly understood. Using Escherichia coli as a model organism, we used random transposon mutagenesis to identify mutants with increased tolerance towards two bactericidal antibiotics, ticarcillin, a β-lactam-targeting peptidoglycan and ofloxacin. We demonstrated, through identification of amino acid auxotroph mutants, that starved bacteria exhibited significantly greater tolerance than their planktonic counterparts. Our results therefore show that the SOS stress response induced upon starvation to both amino acids and carbon source and partially dependent on the stringent response upon leucine starvation is a molecular mechanism that is involved in the formation of highly tolerant bacteria.
Plasmodium falciparum merozoites invade and multiply within host red blood cells and invade uninfected erythrocytes to start a new cycle of infection. Invasion of the blood stage of parasite life cycle requires specific interactions between host receptors and parasite ligands that are localized in apical organelles called micronemes. In this study, we identify cAMP as a key regulator that triggers the timely secretion of micronseme proteins enabling receptor-engagement and invasion. We demonstrate that exposure of extracellular membrane-bound pheromones to a low K+ environment, typical of blood plasma, activates a bicarbonate-sensitive cytoplasmic adenylyl cyclase to raise cytosolic CAMP levels and activate protein kinase A ( PKA ), which regulates the release of molybdenum-derived microprotein proteins. Our study provides novel targets to inhibit parasite growth and prevent malaria.
Strongyloides stercoralis is a soil-transmitted helminth and one of the most neglected among the so-called neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ). It occurs almost world-wide, excluding only the far north and south, yet estimates about its prevalence are often little more than educated guesses.
Circadian rhythms are daily changes in gene expression and physiology that persist even in the absence of external environmental cues. A detailed understanding of the underlying transcriptional mechanisms is essential for the development of circadian therapeutics to be successful.
The recent increase in antibiotic resistance in pathogenic bacteria calls for new approaches to drug-target selection and drug development. Targeting the mechanisms of action of proteins involved in bacterial cell division bypasses problems associated with increasingly ineffective variants of older antibiotics; to this end, the essential bacterial cytoskeletal protein FtsZ is a promising target. Recent work on its allosteric inhibitor, PC190723, revealed in vitro activity on Staphylococcus aureus FTSZ and in vivo antimicrobial activities, but the mechanism of drug action and its effect are unclear. Here, we use PocketFEATURE, a statistical method that scores the similarity between pairs of small-molecule binding sites based on 3D structure information about the local microenvironment, and molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations. We observed that species and nucleotide-binding state have significant impacts on the structural properties of the binding site, with substantially disparate microenvironments for bacterial species not from the same genus. Our results demonstrate that a drug binding pocket can vary significantly across species, genetic perturbations, or in different polymerization states, yielding important information for the further development of inhibitors.
Lens epithelium derived growth factor ( LEDGF ), also known as PC4 and SFRS1 interacting protein 1 ( PSIP1 ) and transcriptional co-activator p75, is the cellular binding partner of lentiviral integrase ( IN ) proteins, and is required for efficient viral replication. We now present a crystal structure containing the N-terminal and catalytic core domains ( NTD and CCD ) of HIV-2 IN in complex with the IN binding domain ( IBD ). The structure extends the known IN–LEDGF interface, elucidating primarily charge–charge interactions between the two complexes. A constellation of positively charged residues on the IIBD is characteristic of the ligand-binding domain of IN and severely affect the interaction with all lentIViral INs tested. These findings provide a structural basis for the high affinity and robustness of this interaction and pave the way for development of LED-based targeting technologies for gene therapy.
Cells of different organs at different ages have an intrinsic set of kinetics that dictates their behavior. Transformation into cancer cells will inherit these kinetic traits that determine initial cell and tumor population progression dynamics. We develop a cellular automaton model that tracks the temporal evolution of the malignant subpopulation of so-called cancer stem cells ( CSC ), as these cells are exclusively able to initiate and sustain tumors. Our study suggests that cell proliferation potential is the strongest modulator of tumor growth. Early increase in proliferative potential yields larger populations of non-stem cancer cell ( CC ) that compete with C SC and thus inhibit division while a reduction in proliferation capacity loosens such inhibition and facilitates frequent cancer division. The sub-population is highly heterogeneous dictating population level dynamics that vary from long-term dormancy to aggressive progression.
Many zoonotic, novel infectious diseases in humans appear as sporadic infections with spatially and temporally restricted outbreaks, as seen with influenza A ( H5N1 ). Adaptation is often a key factor for successfully establishing sustained human-to-human transmission. Here we use simple mathematical models to describe different adaptation scenarios with particular reference to spatial heterogeneity within the human population. We present analytical results for the probability of emergence per introduction, and the waiting time to a successful emergence event. Furthermore, we show that the vast majority of communities for which such data are available are at least this well interconnected. For plausible parameter ranges, the effects of spatial variation are likely to be dominated by the evolutionary biology of host adaptation.
Wild birds have been implicated in the emergence of human and livestock influenza, including pandemic influenza and highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza. The successful prediction of viral spread and disease emergence, as well as formulation of preparedness plans, has been hampered by a critical lack of knowledge of virus movements between different host populations. Here we analyze genomic data collected from wild birds over a 34-year period of continuous systematic surveillance of North American migratory birds. We show that despite the high prevalence of Charadriiformes infected in Delaware Bay this host population does not appear to significantly contribute to the influenza A virus diversity sampled in Anseriforme. In contrast, influenza viruses sampled from Alberta are representative of the AIV diversity circulating in northern Alberta. Our large-scale analysis showed that the long-term persistence of influenza virus was independent of bird flyways with migration between populations throughout North America.
The hemagglutinin ( HA ) of influenza A viruses has been classified into sixteen distinct subtypes ( H1–H16 ) to date. Most neutralizing antibodies recognize the HA1 subtype, which is responsible for virus entry into target cells, virus binding to the host receptor, internalization of the virus, and subsequent membrane-fusion events. In this study, we generated a novel monoclonal antibody, MAb S139/1, that was broadly cross-reactive to a variety of HA viruses by intranasal immunization. This antibody was found to have broad reactivity to many other viruses in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Mutant viruses that escaped neutralization by this antibody were selected from the A/Aichi/2/68, H3N2, WSN/33 ( A1N1 ), Adachi/ 2/57, K2N3, MD/H9 ( Maryland/704/77 ( MD ) and W213/97 ( West Virginia ) strains. These results demonstrate that the heterosubtypic immunity against influenza virus infection can be provided by antibodies that recognize a common antigenic site shared among many different HA proteins and neutralize viral infectivity in vitro and in vivo by affecting viral attachment to cells.
Strongyloides stercoralis is a soil-transmitted helminth that is common in both the developing world and in underprivileged communities in developed countries. Prevalence is frequently estimated at 30–100 million cases world wide, but due to difficulties with diagnosis, the frequent absence of symptoms in chronic cases, and the lack of extensive screening for the infection, this may be an under-estimate. Treatment with ivermectin was highly effective and resulted in a sustained fall in the prevalence of infection in an Aboriginal community over a three year period. Results of treatment suggested use of a lower ELISA threshold for treatment was valid in this setting.
Prion diseases are caused by a misfolded isoform of the prion protein, PrPSc. Prion strains, when present in the same host, can interfere with each other when a long-incubation period strain ( i. e. blocking strain ) inhibits the conversion of a short-circuited strain from a medium-lived strain. The relationship between the strain-specific biochemical features and the outcome of disease are poorly understood. Here, we show that co-infection of animals with combinations of long incubation-period strains failed to identify evidence of strain interference. To exclude the possibility that this inability of strains to interfere in vivo was due to a failure to infect common populations of neurons we used protein mis-folding cyclic amplification ( PMCAsi ). Consistent with the animal bioassay studies, PMCA reactions were seeded with relatively higher levels of remaining PrPC compared to reactions seeded in response to short incubations period strains. Overall, this observation changes the paradigm of interactions of prions and has implications for interspecies transmission and emergence of different strains from different species.
Intrinsically disordered proteins/regions ( IDPs/IDRs ) are prevalent in allosteric regulation. It was previously thought that intrinsic disorder is favorable for maximizing the allostery of the system. Here, we propose a comprehensive ensemble model to compare the roles of both order-order transition ( MWC ) and disorder ( EAM ). We show that the order–disorder ( R-I ) transition has a higher probability than the disorder–EAM pathway ( disorder-T ), suggesting a complicated role in regulatory proteins. In addition, an analytic formula is obtained, which shows that too stable or too unstable state is unfavorable to endow the effect. Therefore, this model can be useful for rational design of drugs.
Prostate cancer is a major cause of male death in the Western world, but few frequent genetic alterations that drive prostate cancer initiation and progression have been identified. The cytoplasmic protein β-Catenin is essential for many developmental processes and has been implicated in tumorigenesis in many tissues. However, expression studies on human prostate cancers samples are unclear on the role this protein plays in this disease. We have used in vivo genetic studies in both the normal and neoplastic prostate to extend our understanding of the function of β–catenins in prostate development. Our gene deletion analysis revealed that prostate epithelia are required for embryonic prostate growth and branching but are dispensable for disease progression. In addition, we show that α-CATENIN overexpression in combination with Pten loss was able to drive progression to invasive carcinoma together with squamous metaplasia. These data provide novel information on cancer progression pathways that give rise to lethal prostate disease in humans.
Currently there is increasing recognition of the need for research in developing countries where disease burden is high. Understanding the role of local factors is important for undertaking ethical research. We explored factors relating to information and communication during the process of informed consent, and the approach that should be followed for gaining consent. The study was conducted prior to a family-based genetic study among people with podoconiosis ( non-filarial elephantiasis ) in southern Ethiopia. In this study, we conducted focus-group discussions ( FGDs ) and in-depth interviews ( IDIs ) with community members, fieldworkers, researchers, staff of a local NGO working on prevention and treatment and community leaders. Our study found that the extent of use of everyday language, the degree to which expectations of potential participants were addressed, as well as the techniques of presentation of information had considerable impact on comprehension of knowledge provided about research, were considered the optimal means of communication.
Cell division is a characteristic of biological systems, with variability of rates of proliferation and interphase duration according to the type of organism, organ, and period of life. In the immune system, cell proliferation is essential for the high turnover of diversified lymphocytes that insures dynamic cognitive function and maintenance of body integrity. Quantification and interpretation of lymphocyte dynamics remains a challenge in systems immunology, where aging and genetic peculiarities could be of importance. Here, we assess the impact of genetics and aging on the development of T cells, along their differentiation through thymus and spleen in mice. Our investigation is based on single-cell multicolour flow cytometry analysis revealing the active incorporation of an analogue of 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine ( EdU ) during S phase after pulse-chase-pulse experiments in vivo, versus cell DNA content. A generic mathematical model of state transition simulates through Ordinary Differential Equations ( ODEs ) the evolution of single cell behaviour during various durations of labelling. It allows us to fit our data, to deduce proliferation rates and estimate cell cycle phases in sub-populations, revealing T cell differentiation heterogeneity and specific signatures.
Mammalian mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) is a double-stranded circular molecule that codes for 13 of the 87 proteins that constitute the OXPHOS system. Mutations in mt-tRNA genes are known to be responsible for a wide variety of diseases in humans. To date, the only source of this type of mutations is human patients. We report here the generation and characterization of a mitochondrial tRNA pathological mutation in mouse cells, an m. 3739G>A transition in the mitochondrial mt–Ti gene. This mutation recapitulates the molecular hallmarks of disease-causing mutation described in human and the human mutations, and we could determine that the pathogenic molecular mechanism, induced by both the mouse and human mutants, is high frequency of abnormal folding of mitochondrial protein synthesis that cannot be charged with isoleucine. The cells harboring the mutant mtRNA have exacerbated mitochondrial biogenesis triggered by an increase in mitochondrial ROS production as a compensatory response. Therefore, we demonstrate the positive implication of ROS-mediated mitochondria and suggest that this mechanism may allow the survival and reproduction of some individuals despite of carrying a deleterious allele.
Dosage compensation restores a balanced network of gene expression between autosomes and sex chromosomes in males ( XY ) and females ( XX ). Strategies to achieve this vary among species. In mammals, dosage compensation is achieved by doubling expression of X-linked genes in both sexes, together with X inactivation in females. Up-regulation of the active X chromosome may be controlled by DNA sequence–based and/or epigenetic mechanisms that double the X output potentially in response to autosomal factor. To determine whether X expression is adjusted depending on ploidy, we used expression arrays to determine the global expression levels per gene copy in human triploid cells. We found that the average X:autosome expression ratio was about 1 in normal cells, but was lower ( 0. 81–0. 84 ) in the same cell line with one or two X chromosomes and higher ( 1. 32–1. 4 ) than in cells with two or more X's. Our data suggest that dosage in relation to the number of genes is critical.
The identification of genetic loci undergoing adaptation is a central project of evolutionary biology. With the advent of sequencing technologies, a variety of statistical tests have been developed to quantify selection pressures acting on protein-coding regions. Among these, the dN/dS ratio is one of the most widely used, owing in part to its simplicity and robustness. Here, we study the relationship between selection at silent sites and the rate of substitutions at non-silent sites ( dS ), which possibly experience selection. We find that in this context, selection is relatively insensitive to the selection coefficient, and that the hallmark signature of positive selection over divergent lineages does not hold within a population. Moreover, when applied to intra-specific samples, our results may lead to surprising conclusions.
A major goal in evolutionary biology is to understand how natural selection has shaped patterns of genetic variation across genomes. Studies in a variety of species have shown that neutral genetic diversity has been reduced at sites linked to those under direct selection. However, the effect of linked selection on neutral sequence divergence ( inter-species differences ) remains ambiguous. While empirical studies have reported correlations between divergence and recombination, which is interpreted as evidence for natural evolution reducing linked neutral divergence, theory argues otherwise, especially for species that have diverged long ago. Here we address these outstanding issues by examining the effects of the link between divergent divergence between closely and distantly related species ( e. g. human-primate ). We show that the contribution of ancestral polymorphism to divergence is negatively correlated with functional content and positively associated with estimates of background selection from primates. These patterns persist even after accounting for the confounding factors of hypermutable CpG sites, GC content, and biased gene conversion. Coalescent models indicate that even when this contribution is small, background selective in the ancestral population can still explain a large proportion of variation in divergence across the genome, generating the observed correlations. Our work has implications for understanding the evolution of genomes and interpreting the evolutionary forces affecting variation.
Phosphorylation is a pivotal regulatory mechanism for protein stability and activity in circadian clocks regardless of their evolutionary origin. It determines the speed and strength of molecular oscillations by acting on transcriptional activators and their repressors, which form negative feedback loops. In Drosophila, the CK2 kinase phosphorylates and destabilizes the PERIOD ( PER ) and TIMELESS ( TIM ) transcription factors, respectively. Here we show that the CLOCK ( CLK ) activator also plays a role in its degradation and degradation, even in the absence of PER or TIM. Unexpectedly, we find that inhibition of the catalytic α subunit of this enzyme is not required for the regulation of CLKE stability. We also demonstrate that this inhibition results from counteracting effects of other kinases and phosphatases.
Trypanosoma cruzi is the etiological agent of Chagas' disease. The parasite is transmitted in nature to vertebrate hosts through hematophagous insects from the Reduviidae family. During their development within insects, the parasites undergo profound morphological changes, modulating surface molecules to enable interactions with specific insect tissues that are essential for their survival, development and successful transmission to the invertebrate host. Here, we have investigated whether the enzyme, cruzipain, could be involved in the interaction of the parasite with the insect vector. We analyzed the effect of treatment of parasite lines transfected with anti-cruzipine antibodies or with a panel of cysteine peptidase inhibitors on parasite adhesion to Rhodnius prolixus posterior midgut ex vivo. All treatments were significantly reduced the levels of active parasites in comparison to wild-type parasites. Transgenic epimastigotes overexpressing an endogenous parasite inhibitor ( pCHAG ), chagasin, and that have reduced levels in both parasites adhered to insect gut 73% less. Parasites isolated after passage in an insect presented a drastic enhancement in parasite expression. These data highlight, for the first time, a prominent role for T. cruzinsect host interaction.
Cytoplasmic dynein is a microtubule-dependent motor protein that functions in mitotic cells during centrosome separation, metaphase chromosome congression, anaphase spindle elongation, and chromosome segregation during mitosis. While many cytoskeletal processes are required for cytoplylase function, our knowledge of the molecular mechanisms that target and regulate this microtumor motor remains largely unknown. By screening a conditional Caenorhabditis elegans cytotoxic dynesin heavy chain mutant at a semipermissive temperature with a genome-wide RNA interference library to reduce gene functions, we have isolated and characterized twenty genes that, when reduced in function but not other conditionally mutant loci, suppress the partial loss of function. Twenty of these suppressors suppress conditional mutants but do not exhibit sterile or lethal phenotypes when their function is reduced. These suppressor proteins localize to subcellular sites that overlap with those that are reported by others for the dysin light chain. Furthermore, knocking down any one of four putative dyesin accessory chains suppresses the conditional lethal mutants. We conclude that conserved but nonessential genes contribute to the essential process of mitogenesis.
During somatic differentiation, physiological DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) can drive programmed genome rearrangements ( PGR ), during which DNA repair pathways are mobilized to safeguard genome integrity. Because of their unique nuclear dimorphism, ciliates are powerful unicellular eukaryotic models to study the mechanisms involved in P GR. In Paramecium tetraurelia, the germline nucleus is transmitted to the progeny, but it is destroyed at each sexual cycle, while the diploid micronucleus ( MIC ) undergoes meiosis and transmits the new MIC and MAC of the next generation. We have focused our analysis on a domesticated transposase, PiggyMac, which is essential for DNA cleavage, and a specific component of non-homologous end-joining ( NHEJ ) pathway. Using RNA interference, we show that the development-specific Ku70/Ku80c heterodimer is required for the recovery of a functional S-chromosome. Strikingly, at the molecular level, Ku is abolished at IES boundaries in cells depleted for Ku80, resulting in Ies retention in the nucleus. Our study provides new insights into the interplay between the two processes.
Prion diseases typically have long pre-clinical incubation periods during which time the infectious prion particle and infectivity steadily propagate in the brain. Abnormal neuritic sprouting and synaptic deficits are apparent during the early stages of disease, however, gross neuronal loss is not detected until the onset of the clinical phase. The molecular events that accompany early neuronal damage and ultimately conclude with neuronal death remain obscure. In this study, we used laser capture microdissection to isolate hippocampal CA1 neurons and determined their transcriptional response during infection. We found that gene expression within these neurons is dynamic and characterized by distinct phases of activity. A major cluster of genes is altered during early infection after which expression either returns to basal levels, or alternatively undergoes a direct reversal during clinical disease. Strikingly, this cluster contains a signature highly reminiscent of synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartic acid ( NMDA ) receptor signaling and the activation of neuroprotective pathways. Additionally, genes involved in neuronal projection and dendrite development were also altered throughout the disease culminating in a general decline of expression for synaptic proteins. This is the first in depth genomic study describing the preclinical response of neurons to the presence of a neuronal protective mechanism that initially promotes cell survival and neurite remodelling. Manipulation of these early neural pathways may redress the balance between degeneration and survival, providing a potential inroad for treatment.
Human visceral leishmaniasis, caused by infection of mice with the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani, is characterized by focal accumulation of inflammatory cells in the liver, forming discrete “granulomas” within which the parasite is eventually eliminated. To shed new light on fundamental aspects of granuloma formation and function, we have developed an in silico Petri net model that simulates the progression of disease as seen during experimental infection. The model was extensively validated by comparison with data derived from experimental studies in mice, and the model robustness was assessed by a sensitivity analysis. Our data suggest a dominant local regulatory role for IL-10 produced by infected Kupffer cells.
The transcriptional regulatory machinery of a gene can be viewed as a computational device, with transcription factor concentrations as inputs and expression level as the output. This view begs the question: what kinds of computations are possible? We analyze the accuracy and precision of these approximations, showing that they depend on different sets of parameters, and are thus independently tunable. We also consider the much more general problem of approximating analytic functions by allowing multiple transcription factors binding to the promoter. These observations are important for the interpretation of naturally occurring networks and imply new possibilities for design of synthetic networks.
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is a medically important arthropod-borne virus transmitted by mosquitoes in both sylvatic and urban cycles. The Asian/Caribbean genotype is mainly endemic/epidemic among human populations, although some ECSA lineages expanded their range and are currently causing large outbreaks in several human population living in tropical regions. In the present study, we sequenced the genomes of two different genotypes simultaneously circulating in the Northeast region of Brazil. Our results show for the first time the presence of simultaneous infection by these two variants, suggesting that coinfection might be more common than previously thought in highly endemic areas.
Horizontal acquisition of DNA by bacteria dramatically increases genetic diversity and hence successful bacterial colonization of several niches, including the human host. A relevant issue is how this newly acquired DNA interacts and integrates in the regulatory networks of the bacterial cell. In enteric bacteria, the global modulator H-NS targets both core genome and HGT genes and silences gene expression in response to external stimuli such as osmolarity and temperature. Here we provide evidence that plasmid- and chromosomal-encoded proteins have evolved to selectively discriminate between core DNA sequences, efficiently silencing the latter. This feature could provide a fitness advantage by allowing the presence of a large number of silent virulence genes to be available, without interfering with host colonization.
Infection with species of the kinetoplastid parasite, Leishmania, results in a spectrum of diseases in man, termed the leishmaniases. These range from the non-fatal chronic cutaneous lesions arising from L. major infection to mucocutaneous disease, most commonly associated with the visceralising disease of lice and visceralised lesions in the Indian sub-continent, and the often fatal visceralisation of visceralized lesions. The last two species are generally considered to be genetically identical, with only a small number of genes being differentially expressed in intracellular amastigotes. Here, we have used customised oligonucleotide microarrays to confirm that only ∼9% of all the genes identified by genome comparisons are regulated in their RNA expression during the life cycle, a figure consistent with that observed in other species sequenced to date. We have also investigated whether host immune competence influences parasite gene expression, by comparing mRNA expression profiles in mice derived from either wild-type ( BALB/c ) or immunologically compromised ( Rag2−/− γc−/-− ) mice. While parasite dissemination from site of infection is enhanced in these mice, parasite RNA levels are unperturbed. Our findings support the hypothesis that LeISHmania amasterigote genes are pre-adapted for intracllular survival and undergo little dynamic modulation at the RNA level. Species-specific parasite factors contributing to virulence and pathogenicity in humans may be limited to the products of a few differentials distributed genes, either of which are subject to translational and/or post-translational controls.
Amphimeriasis is a fish-borne disease caused by the liver fluke Amphimerus spp. that has recently been reported as endemic in the tropical Pacific side of Ecuador with a high prevalence in humans and domestic animals. The diagnosis is based on the stool examination to identify parasite eggs, but it lacks sensitivity. Additionally, the morphology of the eggs may be confounded with other liver and intestinal flukes. No immunological or molecular methods have been developed to date. We have developed and evaluated, for the first time, a specific and sensitive LAMP assay for specific detection in human stool samples.
Macroautophagy is a lysosomal self-degrading pathway in eukaryotic cells. The fusion of autophagosomes with late endosomes/lysosome fusion is the critical step of this process. In metazoans, the SNARE Syntaxin17 ( Syx17 ) forms a complex with Snap29 and Vamp7/8 in order to promote fusion via multiple interactions with the tethering complex HOPS. Here we show that Ykt6 is essential for fusion-competent assembly in Drosophila larval fat cells, and that the zero layer arginine is not required for this function. Finally, we demonstrate that a point mutant form with an RQ amino acid change in the non-conventional, regulatory N-methylmaleimide sensitive factor attachment protein receptor ( SNARES ), which is thought to be important for vacuolar fusion, restores full viability in mutant animals, unlike palmitoylation or farnesylation site mutants.
Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae ( NTHI ) is a commensal of the human nasopharnyx, yet causes opportunistic diseases such as conjunctivitis and sinusitis, exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, complications of cystic fibrosis and chronic and acute otitis media. As a first line of innate immune defense, AMPs serve to limit bacterial colonization of mucosal surfaces and are a critical component to control bacterial infection. The Sap ( sensitivity to antimicrobial peptides ) ABC transporter is required for the bacterial cytoplasm to resist AMP lethality, although the mechanism of this resistance has remained undefined. We previously demonstrated that the periplasmic binding protein SapA binds to the adhesion molecule, chinchilla β-defensin 1 ( cBD-1 ), and binds numerous peptidases, including lipid A acylation, thus altering membrane permeability. Here, we demonstrate, by antibody-mediated neutralization, that a Sap-permease complex is able to prevent the accumulation of antimicrobials, a mechanism by which the Sap transporter confers resistance to AMPS.
Many transcription factors have unusually short half-lives compared to other cellular proteins. Here, we explore the utility of active degradation in shaping how the multi-antibiotic resistance activator MarA coordinates its downstream targets. We control a variety of stress response genes in Escherichia coli by knocking down the protease that targets it via CRISPRi. Our experimental and analytical results show that the amount of coordinated diversity that a regulatory protein can achieve can impact both the rate of coordination and the maximum coordination between downstream genes. This trade-off between these properties shows that perfect information fidelity and instantaneous coordination cannot coexist.
Leishmania mexicana is a protozoan parasite that is transmitted by infected female sandflies and causes a wide spectrum of diseases ranging from self-healing cutaneous lesions to fatal systemic disease. Resistance to infection with the parasite typically requires the presence of an antigen-specific type 1 immune response comprising of IFN-γ/TNF-α/IL-2 producing CD4+ T cells as well as a diminished TH1 response. By contrast, in the present study footpad infection of mice with L. major resulted in a healing response as measured by lesion size and parasite numbers similar to those of infected mice. Analysis of immune responses following infection demonstrated that the increased susceptibility of non-stimulated mice was to a significant degree due to elevated Arginase-1 levels, a lower frequency of IL-4 and CD8+ cells and lower antigen stimulated spleen and lymph node production than their wild-type counterparts. However, the overall T cell hypo-responsiveness was equally effective at controlling parasite growth in mice infected with this parasite.
The mammalian pancreas is a branched organ that does not exhibit stereotypic branching patterns, similarly to most other glands. Inside branches, it contains a network of ducts that undergo a transition from unconnected microlumen to a mesh-like structure. This ductal remodeling is poorly understood, both on a microscopic and macroscopic level. In this article, we quantify the network properties at different developmental stages. We find that the pancreatic network exhibits stereotypically traits at each stage and that its properties change with time toward the most economical and optimized delivery of exocrine products into the duodenum. Using in silico modeling, and by deconstructing the main steps of network development into a set of simple rules likely to be conserved for many other organs.
Kinesins are a family of ATP-dependent molecular motor proteins that drive intracellular transport by coupling ATP hydrolysis to conformational changes that mediate directed movement along microtubules. Characterizing these distinct conformations and their interconversion mechanism is essential to determining an atomic-level model of kinesin action. Here we report a comprehensive principal component analysis of 114 experimental structures along with the results of conventional and accelerated molecular dynamics simulations that together map the structural dynamics of the kinein motor domain. All structures were found to reside in one of three distinct conformation clusters ( ATP, ADP-like and Eg5 inhibitor-bound ). These groups differ in the orientation of key functional elements, most notably the macrotubule binding α4–α5, loop8 subdomain and α2b-β4- β6-beta7 motor domains tip. Group membership was found not to correlate with either the nature of a bound nucleotide in a given structure. However, groupings were coincident with distinct neck-linker orientations. Further dissection of these couplings provides evidence for a network of dynamic communication between the active site and the binding site via loop7 and loop13. Additional simulations indicate that the mutations G325A and G326A in loops13 reduce the flexibility of this regions and disrupt their coupling.
The bacterial Lux system is used as a gene expression reporter. It is fast, sensitive and non-destructive, enabling high frequency measurements. Originally developed for bacteria, it has also been adapted for eukaryotic cells, and can be used for whole cell biosensors, or in real time with live animals without the need for euthanasia. However, correct interpretation of bioluminescent data is limited. We have developed a computational approach that, for the first time, allows users of Lux assays to infer gene transcription levels from the light output. This approach is based upon a new mathematical model for Lux activity, that includes the actions of the LuxAB, LuxEC and Fre, with improved mechanisms for all reactions, as well as synthesis and turn-over of proteins. The model is calibrated with new experimental data from Photorhabdus luminescens—the source of modern Lux reporters—while literature data has been used. Importantly, the data show clear evidence for previously unreported product inhibition. Model simulations show that predicted changes in promoter activity can often be very different from changes of expression, very similar to changes seen in some data sets.
The replication of enteroviruses 71 ( EV71 ) and coxsackievirus A16 ( CVA16 ), which are the major cause of hand, foot and mouth disease ( HFMD ) in children, can be inhibited by the capsid binder GPP3. Here, we present the crystal structure of the inhibitor in complex with the uncoating inhibitor and show that it has a similar binding mode. Furthermore, the structural and in silico results are analyzed in the context of a broad-spectrum antiviral activity of these molecules.
The immune response to fungal and Gram-positive infections is regulated by the serpin-family inhibitor, Necrotic. Following immune-challenge, a proteolytic cascade is activated which signals through the Toll receptor. Toll activation results in a range of antibiotic peptides being synthesised in the fat-body and exported to the haemolymph. As with mammalian serpins, this process is rapid, but its site of degradation has been unclear. By “freezing” endocytosis with a temperature sensitive Dynamin mutation, we demonstrate that the protein synthesis is initiated in two groups of giant cells: the garland and pericardial athrocytes. We show that this protein is processed through multi-vesicular bodies and delivered to lysosome, where it co-localises with the ubiquitin-binding protein, HRS. Uptake of the undigested, native Necroic is blocked by a chromosomal deletion of LpR1. In conclusion, the scavenging of Serpin/proteinase complexes may be a critical step in regulation of proteinase cascades.
The left-right ( LR ) asymmetry of internal organs is one of the most fascinating features of bilaterian development. In the past two decades, studies of molecular pathways controlling LR axis establishment have broadened our knowledge regarding the dissimilar and conserved mechanisms among different animal models. Here, we revealed that BMP signaling is activated in the left coelomic pouch, specifically in veg2 lineage, but not in small micromeres. By perturbing the expression patterns of genes related to the Nodal and Bone morphogenic protein signaling pathway in sea urchins, our findings show that the opposing roles of NODal signaling in establishing LR asymmetric development in deuterostomes are conserves.
The onset of human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) lytic infection is strictly synchronized with the host cell cycle. Infected G0/G1 cells support viral immediate early ( IE ) gene expression and proceed to the G1/S boundary where they finally arrest. During latent infection IE gene is also inhibited, and for reactivation to occur this block to IE expression must be overcome. It is only poorly understood which viral and/or cellular activities maintain the block-to-cell cycle or latency-associated viral IE-expression and whether the two mechanisms may be linked. Here, we show that the cell-cycle dependent release of MIE gene by both genotoxic stress and chemical inhibitors of cellular DNA replication, pointing to a pivotal role for checkpoint-dependent signaling pathways in controlling viral gene repression. Importantly, CDK inhibiton also overcomes the inhibition of IE mRNA expression during quiescent infection of NTera2 ( NT2 ) cells. These results underscore the general relevance of the cellular cycle state for virus-host interaction and allow more flexibility in choosing informative cellular systems for further specific experimental approaches.
Dendritic cells ( DCs ) represent the most effective naturally-occurring antigen-presenting cells and have critical roles for inducing and maintaining HIV-1-specific T cell responses. However, the mechanisms that facilitate the induction of effective immune responses in elite controllers remain undefined. In this study, we demonstrate that the immune recognition of HIV in cDCs from elite control subjects leads to rapid and sustained production of type I interferons and upregulation of several antiviral effector genes, likely through an accumulation of viral reverse transcripts that serve as substrates for the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS. Emergence of these cell-intrinsic responses was associated with a reduction of SAMHD1 and LEDGF/p75, but inhibited by pharmacological blockade of virus reverse transcription or siRNA-mediated silencing. Importantly, improved cellular-infiltrating mechanisms translated into stronger abilities to stimulate and expand CD8 T cells. Together, these data suggest previously unrecognized innate mechanisms for HIV recognition that contribute to immune control.
Obesity has a strong genetic component, but few of the genes that predispose to obesity are known. Genetic screens in invertebrates have the potential to identify genes and pathways that regulate the levels of stored fat, many of which are likely to be conserved in humans. In order to facilitate such screens, we have developed a simple buoyancy-based screening method for identifying mutant Drosophila larvae with increased organismal fat levels. Among these was a sirtuin family member, Sir2. Sirtuins regulate storage and metabolism of carbohydrates and lipids by deacetylating key regulatory proteins. However, it has been difficult to define their role in energy homeostasis accurately under normal feeding conditions. We show that knockdown of Sir1 in the larval fat body results in increased accumulation of fat in individual cells. Moreover, using genetic mosaics, the majority of wild-type ( wt ) animals sink whereas adipose ( adp ) mutants float. Surprisingly, although Sir3 mutant larvae survive better than wild type under conditions of amino-acid starvation as long as sugars are provided. Our findings point to a novel mechanism for regulating fat storage in an intact organism.
Asymmetric cell division is essential to generate cellular diversity. In many animal cells, the cleavage plane lies perpendicular to the mitotic spindle at the end of mitosis, and it is the positioning of the spindles that dictates the size and fate of daughter cells. Although some properties of this process are conserved between distantly related model species and different cell types, little is known about the evolutionary robustness and the mechanisms underlying this event. We recorded the first embryonic division of 42 species of nematodes closely related to Caenorhabditis elegans, which is an excellent model system to study the biophysical and molecular basis of asymmetric cells division. Our recordings, corresponding to 128 strains from 27 and 15 species from the same species, constitute a powerful collection of subcellular phenotypes. Notably, these parameters changed frequently during evolution with no apparent directionality in the species phylogeny, with the exception of transverse oscillations. These changes were also unrelated to evolutionary variations in embryo size. This finding contrasts starkly with expectations and reveals previously unrecognized evolutionary changes in cell mechanics.
The evolution of new gene networks is a primary source of genetic innovation that allows bacteria to explore and exploit new niches, including pathogenic interactions with host organisms. For example, the archetypal DNA binding protein, OmpR, is identical between Salmonella Typhimurium and Escherichia coli, but regulatory specialization has resulted in different environmental triggers and largely divergent regulatory regulons. We found that the expression of the ompRs gene is elevated by acid pH but not in E. coli. This differential expression pattern is due to differences in the promoter regions of these genes and the regulatory orthologue can be made acid-inducible by introduction of appropriate sequences from the appropriate sequence. The genomic targets of OMPR do not share a strong nucleotide sequence consensus: we propose that this is the result of its modest requirements for specificity in its DNA targets with its preference for relaxed DNA allowing it to cooperate with DNA-topology-based allostery to modulate transcription in response to acid stress.
Chlamydia trachomatis is the most prevalent sexually transmitted bacterial pathogen, infecting an estimated 92 million people a year. The pathogenic bacteria employ a wide range of strategies to avoid elimination by their host. Targeting histone modifications could allow the bacteria to subvert host defense mechanisms. To date, no such effectors have been found to target the host cell nucleus. In this study, we characterized the chlamydial SET domain protein CT737. We found the protein to be secreted from bacteria and localized to the mammalian nucleus by transfection reconstituted nuclear targeting and chromatin association. Mutants deficient in automethylation demonstrated diminished activity towards histones. Thus, NUE is secretion by Chlamymydia, translocates to host cells nucleus and has enzymatic activity against eukaryotic substrates.
Stature is a classical and highly heritable complex trait, with 80%–90% of variation explained by genetic factors. In recent years, genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have successfully identified many common additive variants influencing human height; however, little attention has been given to the potential role of recessive genetic effects. Here, we investigated the heritability of height by an analysis of inbreeding depression on adult height in over 35, 000 people from 21 different population samples. We found a highly significant inverse association between height and genomewide homozygosity, equivalent to a height reduction of up to 3 cm in the offspring of first cousins compared with the children of unrelated individuals, an effect which remained after controlling for the effects of socio-economic status. There was a high degree of heterogeneity among populations: whereas the direction of the effect was consistent across most populations, the overall effect size differed significantly among individuals. It is likely that this reflects true biological heterogeneity: whether or not such a effect can be observed will depend on both the variance in homo-genotypic variation and the chance inheritance of individual recessively genotypes. These results predict that multiple, rare, genetic variants influence height.
Innate defenses against Plasmodium parasites play a vital role in the clearance of red blood cells ( iRBCs ) in murine and human infections. This innate response is related to the functional activity of monocytes ( MO ) - macrophages and/or polymorphonuclear leukocytes. These myeloid cells can also modulate the inflammatory process and trigger the adaptive immune responses. We hypothesized that discrete MO subpopulations are induced during malaria infection and associated with anti-parasitic activity. In the present study, we characterized the phenotype of blood MO from healthy malaria-exposed individuals and that of patients with acute uncomplicated malaria by flow cytometry. The percentages and absolute numbers of CD16+ and CCR2+CX3CR1+ MO were high in a majority of the patients. Remarkably, expression of CCD14high ( hi ) MO and CD14hiCD16 high ( high )MO subset defined two subgroups that also differed significantly in their functional ability to limit the parasite growth, through the ADCI mechanism. Data showed that, during a malaria attack, some patients' MO can exert a strong antibody dependent cellular inhibition activity, which may contribute to pathology.
Schistosoma mansoni infection has been associated with an increased HIV prevalence in humans and SHIV incidence in primate models. We hypothesized that immune activation from this gastrointestinal mucosa infection would increase highly HIV-susceptible CD4 T cell subsets in the blood and the foreskin through common mucosal homing. Foreskin tissue and blood were obtained from 34 HIV and malaria-uninfected Ugandan men who volunteered for elective circumcision. Th17 and Th1 cells from both the skin and foreskin expressed higher levels of CCR5 and were more activated than other T cells. However, these immune alterations were not observed in foreskin tissue, suggesting that these alterations did not extend to the penis.
Filarial nematodes maintain a mutualistic relationship with the endosymbiont Wolbachia, which is responsible for the development, fertility and viability of adult female worms. However, little is known concerning the basis for this mutualist relationship. Here we demonstrate using whole mount confocal microscopy that an immediate response to bacterial depletion is extensive apoptosis in the adult germline, and in somatic cells of the embryos, microfilariae and fourth-stage larvae ( L4 ). Surprisingly, apoptotic nuclei are absent in cells that had not been infected prior to antibiotic treatment. In addition, there is a long-term sterility, although disruption of hypodermal cytoskeleton occurs following their depletion. Our observations provide a cellular mechanism to account for sustained reductions in parasite loads and interruption of transmission that occurs before antibiotic therapy.
The malaria-causing blood stage of Plasmodium falciparum requires extracellular pantothenate for proliferation. The parasite converts this protein into coenzyme A ( CoA ) via five enzymes, the first being a protein kinase ( PfPanK ). In this study, we have used continuous drug-pressuring to generate several-fold resistant to these antimalarials. Whole-genome sequencing revealed mutations in one of two putative Pfpank genes in each resistant line. These mutations significantly alter PfpanK activity, with two conferring a fitness cost, consistent with a functional PanK that is essential for normal growth during the intraerythrocytic phase of the parasite’s lifecycle. We provide evidence that these mutations are responsible for the resistance phenotypes. Furthermore, these mutants exhibit a different sensitivity profile to recently-described, potent, antiplasmmodial pantotherapies.
Genome-wide association studies have identified common genetic determinants of the PR interval in individuals of European and Asian ancestry, but there is a general paucity of GWA studies performed in populations of African ancestry. We performed a meta-analysis in African American individuals from four cohorts to identify genetic variants associated with the length of interval duration. Genotyping was performed for 2. 8 million single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) using combined YRI and CEU HapMap phase II panels. A strong signal ( rs3922844 ) within the gene encoding the cardiac sodium channel ( SCN5A ) was found to explain 2% of variation in PR intervals in the African Americans compared to Europeans. This SNP was also correlated with two variants with opposing effects at the locus containing KCNQ1 with type 2 diabetes, at MYH9 with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and a MYBPC3 variant that causes cardiomyopathy and is only polymorphic in Asian populations. Our findings demonstrate the relevance of common variants to African and European samples and identify an association signal at one of these loci.
Tomato mosaic virus ( ToMV ), like other eukaryotic positive-strand RNA viruses, replicates its genomic RNA in replication complexes formed on intracellular membranes. Previous studies showed that a host seven-pass transmembrane protein TOM1 is necessary for efficient replication. Here, we show that the small GTP-binding protein ARL8 is co-purified with a FLAG epitope-tagged RNA polymerase protein from solubilized membranes of Nicotiana tabacum cells. In an in vitro tobamovirus RNA translation-replication system, the lack of either TOMATOM1 or TOM8 proteins inhibited the production of replicative-form RNA, indicating that TOM2A is required for RNA synthesis. This activity was undetectable or very weak when the 130K protein was expressed alone or with either of these proteins. Taken together, these results suggest that, in a process toward activation of the replication proteins' RNA synthesizing and capping functions, a complex containing TOMT1 and TOMORR8 are formed.
Inhibition is ubiquitous in invertebrate and vertebrate neural networks, and serves many different functions throughout the central nervous system. Despite difference in the anatomy or functions of neuronal circuits containing inhibition, two basic motifs repeatedly emerge: feed-forward and feedback. In the locust, it was proposed that a subset of lateral horn interneurons ( LHNs ), provide feedforward inhibition onto Kenyon cells ( KCs ) to maintain their sparse firing—a property critical for olfactory learning and memory. But recently it has been established that the giant GABAergic neuron ( GGN ) is the main and perhaps sole source of inhibition. Here we use a model of the mushroom body to clarify basic differences between effects of feedback vs. feed forward inhibition in circuit dynamics. We found both inhibitory motif were able to provide optimal odor discrimination. However, we further found that only FB inhibition could create a phase response consistent with data recorded in vivo. These findings describe general rules for feed–forward versus feedback inhibition and suggest GGGN is potentially capable of providing the primary source for inhibition to the KC’s. A better understanding of how inhibition is associated with post-synaptic neuronal activity could be used to reveal previously unexplored structures within biological networks.
Rabies is an almost invariably fatal form of acute progressive encephalomyelitis that kills an estimated 59, 000 humans each year, mostly in low-income Asian and African countries. This zoonosis is transmitted to humans by rabid animals biting, scratching or licking mucous membranes or damaged skin. Moreover, some cases of human-to-human transmission have been described following the transplantation of organs or tissues from donors with undiagnosed rabies following aerosol contamination. The principal etiological agent, responsible for almost all human cases, is Rabies virus ( RABV ), the prototype species of the genus Lyssavirus in the family Rhabdoviridae. In this study, we developed a dual combined real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR ) method to detect all representatives of this broad genetic diversity, using two degenerate TaqMan probes and an intercalating dye ( SYBR Green ). It was also evaluated in two national reference laboratories in enzootic countries, where its utility and efficacy were demonstrated.
The tsetse and trypanosomiasis problem to man and his livestock lies at the heart of Africa's poverty. Lack of funding and the complexity of the endeavour, particularly in the vast rainforest areas, may lead to slower progress than originally anticipated. Therefore, improving food security and income of resource-poor farmers in these areas needs to be urgently addressed. Keeping valuable stock confined to pens ( zero-grazing scheme ) is a strategy to reduce the risk of tick-borne diseases. In protecting the participating farmers' livestock they constitute a private good with a public good character. Protection of valuable livestock with an insecticide-treated mosquito net ( ITN ) significantly reduced the number and prevalence of T. brucei gambiense and now rhodesiense sleeping sickness.
There is a growing movement to encourage reproducibility and transparency practices in the scientific community, including public access to raw data and protocols, the conduct of replication studies, systematic integration of evidence in systematic reviews, and the documentation of funding and potential conflicts of interest. In this survey, we assessed the current status of reproducible and transparent addressing these indicators in a random sample of 441 biomedical journal articles published in 2000–2014. Only one study provided a full protocol and none made all data directly available. Replication studies were rare ( n = 4 ) and only 16 studies had their data included in any subsequent systematic review or meta-analysis. The majority of studies did not mention anything about funding or conflicts. We found that the percentage of articles with no statement of conflict decreased substantially between 2000 and 2014. This study provides baseline data to compare future progress in improving this indicators.
Inhalation of Yersinia pestis causes primary pneumonic plague, a highly lethal syndrome with mortality rates approaching 100%. The mechanism and host cell types involved in this phenomenon remain unknown. Using a murine intranasal infection model, our laboratory demonstrated that Y. pesti creates a unique protective environment in the lungs of mice that allows for the growth of typically avirulent organisms. We also demonstrate that neutrophils are ultimately responsible for severe necrotizing pneumonia during the lethal pro-inflammatory phase of disease.
Visceral leishmaniasis is a chronic and progressive systemic disease characterized by fever, weight loss and hepatosplenomegaly; it may lead to death if left untreated. To control the disease, early diagnosis and treatment are essential; however, due to the lack of specificity of VL clinical symptoms, the infection should be confirmed by parasite finding or antibody-detection tests. Blood samples were collected in 2001 from 136 cohort participants ( 97 positive and 39 negatives, PCR/hybridization carried out in 1999 ). They were clinically evaluated and none had progressed to disease from their asymptomatic state. Two molecular biology techniques ( reference tests ) were performed: PCR with Leishmania-generic primer followed by hybridization using L. infantum probe, and polymerase chain reaction with specific primer to l. donovani complex. Plasma samples from patients with kala-azar were tested by ELISA using three different antigens: L, amazonensis, crude antigen and rK39 recombinant protein. Accuracy of the serological tests was evaluated using sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratio and ROC curve. The presence of LeISHmania was confirmed, by molecular techniques, in all patients and in 117 ( 86% ) of patients. Kala patients showed high reactivity in ELISAs compared to molecular methods. Moreover, there was low agreement among the different antigen used ( kappa<0. 10 ), indicating that the diagnostic tests were inaccurate. Therefore, studies which have used serology assays to estimate prevalence, to evaluate intervention programs or to identify risk factors for Leischmania infection, may have had their results compromised.
Retrotransposons are highly prevalent in mammalian genomes due to their ability to amplify in pluripotent cells or developing germ cells. Host mechanisms are important for limiting the accumulation of the repetitive elements in the genome during evolution. However, although silencing of selected individual retrotranspons can be relatively well-studied, many mammalian sequences are seldom analysed. Here we show, and experimentally verify, that cryptic repetitive element probes present in Illumina and Affymetrix gene expression microarray platforms can accurately and sensitively monitor genome-wide transcriptional expression data. This approach has allowed us to identify the histone deacetylase Hdac1 as a component of a major retroTransposon silencer machinery in mouse embryonic stem cells and to determine the target genomic copies of this protein. Furthermore, our computational analysis suggests that a complex interplay between differentially regulated DNA methylation and DNA transposone modifications can repress the activity of these sequences. Thus, this study provides new insights into the mechanisms that suppress the expression of repetitive DNA sequences in germ and embryonic tissues.
Cryptochromes are photolyase-like photoreceptors regulating photomorphogenesis in plants and the circadian clock in animals. Arabidopsis cryptochrome 2 ( CRY2 ) mediates light control of flowering time through interaction with CIB1, which was isolated in a blue light differentiated yeast-two-hybrid screen. In this study, we show that at least three additional members of the bHLH subfamily 18, including the LOV-domain/F-box proteins FKF/ZTL, and phytochromes, act redundantly to activate the transcription of Flowering Locus T ( FT ) messenger RNA expression in vitro. More importantly, the in vivo transcriptional regulation activity of these proteins seems indiscriminatory toward canonical and non-canonical E-boxes, whereas they are all associated with different DNA sequences. Consistent with the hypothesis that different cIB proteins play similar roles in the CRYP2-midiated blue signal transduction pathway to mediate light regulation of floral initiation. Our study demonstrates that the expression of cib proteins is regulated specifically by light.
Many U. S. -bound refugees travel from countries where intestinal parasites ( hookworm, Trichuris trichuria, Ascaris lumbricoides, and Strongyloide stercoralis ) are endemic. These infections are rare in the United States and may be misdiagnosed, leading to potentially serious consequences. To better remediate intestinal parasitoses in arriving refugees, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) began overseas presumptive treatment programs in some refugee populations in 1999. Presumptive treatment is administered shortly before departure to minimize the risk of re-infection. The initial programs included a single dose of albendazole for intestinal nematodes to all refugees departing from Asia and Africa and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine for anti-malarial treatment among refugees arriving from sub-Saharan Africa. We evaluated the costs and health impacts of four interventions on an annual cohort of 27, 700 Asian refugees: 1 ) “No Program, ” 2 ) U. S. (Domestic Screening and Treatment ), 3 ) (Overseas Albendazoole and Ivermectin” ( $165, 923 per cohort ) and ( 4 ) ) — ( ). Our economic decision tree model was developed to estimate long-term effects of these interventions. Health outcome measures ( four parasites ) included outpatient cases, hospitalizations, deaths, quality-adjusted life years ( QALYs ) in a one-year cohort.
Microsporidia represent a large phylum of obligate intracellular pathogens related to fungi, which can infect a diverse array of hosts from protists to humans. The mechanisms responsible for tissue tropism are broad and potentially multifactorial, and can involve features such as access, specific receptor/ligand interactions, pathogen competence for growth in particular tissue niches, or host defense. Understanding how infection occurs preferentially in specific host tissues is a key aspect of understanding host-microbe interactions. Here, we describe the discovery of a new species of nematode, Nematocida displodere, that displays a unique infection life cycle compared to previously described parasites of this host. This system provides a powerful whole-animal model to study the mechanistic and evolutionary bases of infection using closely related but distinct pathogens infecting a single tractable host for the first time.
Cockayne syndrome is an autosomal recessive disease associated with numerous developmental and neurological defects, sun sensitivity and the appearance of premature aging. The Cockayne chromosome complementation group B ( CSB ) protein is essential for transcription-coupled DNA repair and it is also implicated in base-excision DNA. However, the extent to which this activity is utilized in transcription is unknown. In this study, we use a collection of in vitro and in vivo assays to characterize the functions of the conserved ATP–dependent chromatin remodeling protein family. We show that the DNA/nucleosome-stimulated ATPase activity, which is dependent upon nucleosomal DNA contacts, is greatly enhanced by the NAP1-like histone chaperones. By mapping functional domains and analyzing the derivatives of these proteins and by examining the function of both the ATP-dependent and non-catalytic components of this protein, our results provide new insights into the roles of ATP and histones in the regulation of DNA and RNA polymerase I, II and III.
While population studies have resulted in detailed maps of genetic variation in humans, to date there are few robust studies of epigenetic variation. In this study, we identified clusters of CpGs with high inter-individual variation, termed Variably Methylated Regions ( VMRs ), in five purified cell types from two human cohorts. While the majority of DNA methylation variation has high heritability, a subset of sites within the genome show highly correlated variation and are enriched for specific transcription factor binding sites and biological pathways of functional relevance to each tissue. By culturing genetically-identical fibroblasts under varying environmental conditions, our study provides a detailed map of common genomic variations in the human genome, showing that both genetic and environmental causes underlie this variability.
Dengue virus non-structural protein 1 ( NS1 ) has been identified as an early marker for acute infection, and is typically present between days 1–9 post-onset of illness but following seroconversion it can be difficult to detect in serum. To evaluate the clinical performance of a newly developed Panbio® Dengue Early Rapid test, evaluated both alone and in combination with a commercial IgM/IgG rapid test at two separate study sites in Southeast Asia. The performance was similar with 68. 9% sensitivity and 96. 7% specificity ( 95% CI: 61. 8% to 76. 1% ) compared to RT-PCR. When the two tests were compared at each day after onset of clinical signs there was clear differentiation between the antigen and antibody markers.
RNA molecules play diverse roles in many of the most basic cellular processes. In the translation process, for instance, the protein coding ‘message’ is encoded in a messenger RNA ( mRNA ) and transfer RNAs ( tRNAs ) are involved in this catalytic process. A range of other non-protein-coding RNA molecules have been identified, hinting at the possibility that many functionally important classes of RNA are still to be discovered. RNA structure prediction methods, however, assume that there is a unique functional structure and also do not predict functional features required for in vivo folding. To this end, we have developed a new computational method, Transat, which detects conserved helices of high statistical significance. We introduce the method and present a comprehensive performance evaluation and show that it is able to predict the structural features of known reference structures including pseudo-knotted ones as well as those of unknown alternative structural configurations. The method can also identify unstructured sub-sequences bound by other molecules and provides evidence for new heles which may define folding pathways, supporting the notion that homologous RNA sequence not only assume a similar reference structure, but also fold similarly.
Plant immunity protects plants from numerous potentially pathogenic microbes. The biological network that controls plant inducible immunity must function effectively even when network components are targeted and disabled by pathogen effectors. Networks rich in buffering rely on interactions within the network, but these mechanisms are difficult to study by simple genetic means. Through a network reconstitution strategy, in which we disassemble and stepwise reasssemble the plant immune system that mediates Pattern-Triggered-Immunity, we have resolved systems-level regulatory mechanisms underlying the Arabidopsis transcriptome response to the immune stimulant flagellin-22. These mechanisms show widespread evidence of interactions among major sub-networks—we call these sectors—in the flg22-responsive transcriptional response. We demonstrate that many of the regulatory mechanism we resolved are not detectable by the traditional genetic approach of single-gene null-mutant analysis, and that the functional mechanisms inferred from shallow network perturbation did not reflect the regulation of network-dependent transcriptomes.
In the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, all parts of the visual system develop from monolayered neuroepithelial sheets. In a first step patterning mechanisms subdivide the seemingly uniform epithelia into domains allowing an increase of neuronal diversity in a tightly controlled spatial and temporal manner. Here, we characterize a genetic network that regulates the balance between larval eye and optic lobe precursors, as well as between primary and secondary photoreceptor ( PR ) precursor types. We show that the proneural factor Atonal ( Ato ) is both necessary and sufficient to delimit primary PR precurors by regulating ato expression. Hh signaling also controls a binary cell fate decision, thus, acts at the top of a cascade of transcription factor interactions to define PR subtype identity. Our model serves as an example of how combinatorial action of cell extrinsic and cell intrinsic factors control neural tissue patternsing.
Antimicrobial peptides ( AMPs ) are key effector molecules of the innate immune system protecting the human body from bacterial overgrowth, thereby retaining a balanced microbiota and fending off commensals and pathogens. Here, we explore these antimicrobial mechanisms using electron microscopy. We detected a so far unknown net-like structure surrounding bacteria, which were treated with the reduced but not the oxidized form of hBD1. A transmigration assay demonstrated that the same peptide provides distinct and complementary killing-based and killing independent of bacterial killing. The reduced form provides additional host protection by entrapping bacteria in extracellular net structures preventing bacterial invasion.
Lowe syndrome and Dent-2 disease are caused by mutations of the inositol 5-phosphatase OCRL1. Despite our increased understanding of cellular functions, the underlying basis for the renal tubulopathy seen in both human disorders, of which a hallmark is low molecular weight proteinuria, is currently unknown. Here, we show that the zebrafish pronephric tubule is defective in endocytosis, a model for human diseases such as Lowe syndrome. We also observe a reduction in levels of megalin and its accumulation in the endoctic pathway, consistent with reduced recycling from apical endosomes in turn leading to a deficit at the plasma membrane. These results indicate for first time that Oculorecerbrorenal syndrome is a rare X-linked disorder with the hallmark symptoms of congenital cataracts and mental retardation, and strongly support the hypothesis that renal defects give rise to the kidney manifestations of Lowe Syndrome. Moreover, our results reveal PIP5K as a potential therapeutic target for Lowe.
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is a mosquito borne viral zoonosis that affects both livestock and wild ruminants. In recent years, evidence of transmission during inter-epidemic periods in parts of Africa has increasingly been reported. The disease is known to occur in outbreaks in cycles of 5–15 years in the Eastern Africa region, following unusual high precipitations that lead to sustained flooding, but can be revealed where active serological surveillance is regularly done in either livestock or human populations. This study aimed to establish baseline information on the exposure status to Rift valley fever in livestock as determined by presence of antibodies against the virus in serum. A linear increase in seroprevalence was recorded among animals born after the 2006/07 outbreak and 22. 7% in animals present during the outbreak. These findings indicate a constant exposure and presence active foci transmission preceding the survey.
Trypanosoma cruzi is the etiologic agent of Chagas disease. Although this is not a free-living organism it has conserved a contractile vacuole complex to regulate its osmolarity. This obligate intracellular pathogen is, in addition, dependent on surface proteins to invade its hosts. Here we used a combination of genetic and biochemical approaches to delineate the contribution of the CVC to the traffic of glycosylphosphatidylinositol ( GPI ) -anchored proteins ( TcTS ), mucins, and trypomastigote small surface antigen. Mutant parasites were still able to differentiate into metacyclic forms and infect host cells. Mucins from the gp35/50 family also co-localized with GFP-TcRab11 to promote infection. In the presence of exogenous recombinant active, but not inactive, TCTS and a sialic acid donor, the mutants were less infective as compared to wild type cells, which partially rescued infectivity. Taking together these results reveal a novel mechanism of trans-sialidase in promoting infection, as well as a new unconventional mechanism in the transport of membrane proteins.
Rabies is an acute viral disease, caused by viruses belonging to the Lyssavirus genus of the Rhabdoviridae family. Despite the fact that the disease is completely preventable and that recent massive campaigns targeting its elimination were launched in endemic regions, rabies continues to be listed as a neglected tropical disease by the World Health Organization ( WHO ). The current recommendations for post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ), including vaccination, are highly effective when administered promptly after suspected exposure. This phase III clinical trial compared the immunogenicity and safety of a purified chick-embryo cell ( PCECV ) administered according to one of two regimens. Rabies virus neutralizing antibody concentrations and percentages of participants with adequate RVNA concentrations ≥0. 5 IU/mL were assessed up to day ( D ) 365 after first vaccination. Non-inferiority of 4-site/1-week regimen to that of current recommendation was demonstrated if at D49, the lower limit of 95% confidence interval ( CI ) for the difference between groups in the percentage of participant with sufficient RVN concentrations was >-5%. Of the 443 participants receiving the 5-day ( 1-year ) regimen, 88 adults received HRIG; 442 participants received the 2- site/TRC regimen; and all participants in both groups achieved adequate levels by D14. Overall, these data suggest that a shortened post exposure treatment regimen might be more cost-effective than intramuscular ( IM ) ones and are therefore used preferentially.
The salience network ( SN ) plays a crucial role in cognition and emotion via detection and attentional capture of goal-relevant stimuli and facilitation of access to appropriate cognitive resources across a wide range of cognitive tasks. The SN is anchored in the anterior insula and the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, which are among the most commonly activated regions in human neuroimaging studies. Here, we leverage high temporal-resolution fMRI data obtained from the Human Connectome Project ( HCP ) combined with novel dynamic graph-theoretical techniques to investigate dynamic interactions of the SN at subsecond temporal resolution. We show that the large-scale brain dynamics are characterized by several distinctive and robust properties. First, the network demonstrated the highest levels of flexibility in time-varying connectivity with other brain networks, including the frontoparietal network, CINGulate–opercular ( CON ), and ventral and dorsal attention networks ( VAN and DAN ). Second, network centrality was consistently high over time, indicating that this network is a hub for facilitating flexible cross-network interactions. Third, temporal flexibility was distinct from all other prefrontal control systems. These results provide converging evidence that SN contributes to a variety of complex brain functions through interactions among its core nodes. Importantly, each of these results was also observed in a second retest dataset, demonstrating the robustness of our findings.
Nonenveloped viruses are generally released by the timely lysis of the host cell by a poorly understood process. Simian Vacuolating virus 40 ( SV40 ) is the first eukaryotic virus sequenced over thirty years ago and studies of this virus have advanced our understanding of nuclear transport, transcriptional regulation, and cell transformation. Therefore, it serves as an excellent paradigmatic virus to help expand our knowledge about the undefined stages of viral release.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) represents the most important human mosquito-borne disease worldwide. Each year, an estimated 96 million people present clinical signs of the disease. Infection may be asymptomatic or can be manifested as a non-differentiate febrile, marked mainly by myalgia, headache and retroorbital pain. The most severe forms of infection are characterized by plasma leakage, thrombocytopenia and hemorrhage, which can evolve to hypovolemic shock.
In Gram-positive bacteria, cell-to-cell communication mainly relies on extracellular signaling peptides, which elicit a response either indirectly by triggering a two-component phosphorelay, or directly, by binding to cytoplasmic effectors. The latter comprise the RNPP family ( Rgg and original regulators Rap, NprR, PrgX and PlcR ), whose members regulate important bacterial processes such as sporulation, conjugation, and virulence. In this manuscript, we elucidate the structure-function relationship of the transcription factor ComR from Streptococcus thermophilus and provide the structural basis required for rational design of inhibitors. We also suggest that this original mechanism is conserved among orthologues. Importantly, these results might help understand the specificity of this system and control of competence development in pathogenic bacteria.
The pentameric ligand-gated ion channels ( pLGICs ) constitute a large family of ionotropic neurotransmitter receptors that are ubiquitously expressed in the animal kingdom. In vertebrates the family encompasses cation selective serotonin and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors ( nAChRs ) and anion selective GABA and glycine receptors. All family members share a conserved molecular architecture and a similar functional behavior. Here we describe a study on the functional characterization of ELIC by electrophysiology and X-ray crystallography. We have identified a class of primary amines that open the channel by a strongly cooperative process. The high single channel conductance and the comparably simple functional mechanism make the protein an attractive model system to study ion conduction and gating in this important family.
Asthma is a common allergic lung disease frequently affecting individuals with a prior history of eczema/atopic dermatitis ( AD ) ; however, the mechanism underlying the progression from AD to asthma ( the so-called “Atopic march” ) is unclear. Here we show that, like humans with AD, mice with skin-barrier defects develop AD-like skin inflammation and are susceptible to allergic asthma. Furthermore, we demonstrate that thymic stromal lymphopoietin ( TSLP ), overexpressed by skin keratinocytes, is the systemic driver of this bronchial hyper-responsiveness. As a model of allergic inflammation in RBP-j–deficient animals, our study shows that epidermal-derived TSHP was sufficient to sensitize the lung airways to inhaled allergens in the absence of epicutaneous sensitization. Our findings provide a novel molecular mechanism for the development of asthma in AD patients.
A fundamental step towards obtaining a systems-level understanding of organisms is to obtain an accurate inventory of cellular components and their interconnectivities. The genome sequence and in silico predictions of gene annotation are the starting points for assembling a network. Recently, multi-omic data generation and analysis studies have revealed an abundance of genomic features that are not detected computationally such as transcription start site ( TSS ), promoters, non-coding RNAs, ribosome binding sites ( RBSs ) and transcription termination sites. In addition to providing a valuable resource to the research community, this analysis framework facilitates quantitative and comparative analysis of annotated features across microbial species.
Visual perception is defined as the result of revealing a cause to visual awareness, while inference is the process of assigning a probability to each cause at any time given an input. As vision is an under-constrained or ill-posed problem, input features such as local color, orientation, luminance contrast, and spatial scale of image patches are encoded by the activities of retinal and V1 neurons with various input sensitivities. The neural representation of inputs is then used to infer the possible objects in the 3-D scene causing the visual inferences. Here, we study how visual stimuli influence the perception of the target bar through a Bayesian inference and decision process. Our data suggest that the context does not affect the perceived target contrast despite its influence on the bias to perceive the object's presence, thereby suggesting that cortical areas beyond the primary visual cortex are responsible for this inference.
Cooperation based on the production of costly common goods is observed throughout nature. This is puzzling, as cooperation is vulnerable to exploitation by defectors which enjoy a fitness advantage by consuming the common good without contributing fairly. However, population collapse implies small population size, which, in a structured population, is known to favor cooperation.
Chronic pulmonary infections with Pseudomonas aeruginosa severely impair the quality of life and life expectancy of cystic fibrosis patients and are a major factor contributing to their mortality. The mucosal barrier represents a formidable challenge for colonization and bacterial-mediated damage. Thus, infections develop only in patients with altered epithelial cell barriers, including direct trauma, indwelling catheters, or patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy. Regarding CF, the sequence of events predisposing to airway infection has been debated for years. A consensus now exists that the respiratory tract pathophysiology in CF largely results from the inability to secrete Cl− and regulate Na+ absorption, which causes dehydration and accumulation of hyper-viscous mucus. In healthy individuals, billions of cells die by apoptosis each day. Professional and non-professional phagocytes engulf and dispose of apoptotic cells in a process called “efferocytosis”. This process is crucial to preserve the barrier function as dying cells are expelled out of the epithelium. For opportunistic pathogens such as P. albicans, this process involves the recruitment of free-swimming bacteria to localized spots on the cell surface. We propose that this is part of a host defense mechanism.
The Drosophila embryonic gonad is assembled from two distinct cell types, the Primordial Germ Cells ( PGCs ) and the Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells ( SGPs ). The G protein γ subunit 1 ( shf ) encodes a secreted protein that facilitates the long distance transmission of Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of the sending cells in the wing imaginal disc. Shf is expressed during embryogenesis, and loss- and gain-of-function experiments demonstrate that hmgcr plays a pivotal role in generating the hh-Np attractant. Further linking the Hgcr-dependent isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway gene gγ1, we present evidence indicating that ectopic expression of this gene in a nervous system promotes the release/transmission of a key regulatory target for the signaling pathway, HmgCR.
Understanding the mechanisms underlying protection from infection or immune control over HIV replication remains an enormous challenge in the development of efficacious HIV vaccines and immunotherapies. Here, measurements of granzyme B target cell activity and HIV-1-infected CD4+ T-cell elimination were applied for the first time to identify antiviral activities in recipients of a replication incompetent adenovirus serotype 5 ( Ad5 ) recombinant vaccine. We observed readily detectable cytotoxic responses in vaccinees at a median of 331 days following the last immunization. Although the magnitude of these responses was not related to the number of vaccinations, nor did it correlate with the percentages of cytokine-secreting cells determined by ICS assays, we observed that protective HLA class I alleles might lead to better outcomes in both chronic infection and following vaccination due to more efficient priming of the CD8+ cell responses.
There is evidence that the sharing of intentions was an important factor in the evolution of humans’ unique cognitive abilities. Here, for the first time, we formally model the coevolution of jointly intentional behavior and cumulative culture, showing that rapid techno-cultural advance goes hand in hand with the emergence of the ability to participate in joint intentional activity. Conversely, in a situation where there are no opportunities for significant technological improvement, this ability is selected against. Thus, our model provides a unified mechanism for suppressing or emerging of shared intentions and collaborative behavior in humans, as well as a potential cause of inter-species diversity in prevalence of such behavior.
Male fertility requires the continuous production of high quality motile spermatozoa in abundance. Alterations in all three metrics cause oligoasthenoteratozospermia, the leading cause of human sub/infertility. Post-mitotic spermatogenesis inclusive of several meiotic stages is transcriptionally inert, indicating the potential importance for the post-transcriptional microRNA ( miRNA ) gene-silencing pathway therein. In an expression screen we identified two miRNAs of the miR-34 family that are specifically and highly expressed in male germ cells. We found that deletion of these two loci impairs both meiosis and the final stages of spermata maturation in mice. Our results identify the family as the first functionally important non-coding RNAs to be functionally redundant with respect to the regulation of gene expression.
Although Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 ( EcN ) has been used therapeutically for over a century, the determinants of its probiotic properties remain elusive. In this study, we used our knowledge of the biosynthetic pathway of colibactin and other secondary metabolites produced directly or indirectly by the pks island to specifically decouple the genotoxic activity from the antagonistic activity. We successfully decoupled the antibacterial activity and the fungal-siderophore-Mcc biosynthesis pathways. This co-evolution was also observed in vitro with other E. coli strains that carry both a truncated form of Mcc gene cluster and a peptidase domain, indicating that these genomic islands were involved in some aspect of CFT073’s pathogenicity.
Cryptococcus neoformans, an AIDS-defining opportunistic pathogen, is the leading cause of fungal meningitis worldwide and is responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths each year. Cryptococcal glycans are essential for the normal development, growth, and viability of organisms across all kingdoms of life. Nucleotide sugar transporters are membrane proteins that solve this topological problem, by exchanging nucleotide sugars for their corresponding nucleoside phosphates. The major virulence factor of C. neo formans is an anti-phagocytic polysaccharide capsule that is displayed on the cell surface; capsule proteins are also shed from the cells and impede the host immune response. Xylose, a neutral monosaccharid that has never been detected in model yeast, also is a significant capsule component. Here we show that Uxt1 and UXT2 are both transport UDP-Xyl/UDP-Galf, although they exhibit distinct subcellular localization and expression patterns. These findings provide a starting point for deciphering the substrate specificity of an important class of proteins, elucidate a synthetic pathway that may be productively targeted for therapy and contribute to our understanding of fundamental glycobiology.
More than half of the world's population is infected with one or several neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) concurrently, with helminth infections showing the highest prevalence rates. There is a risk of missing high endemicity areas and distributing drugs to places which are not at highest priority, hence wasting human and financial resources. Consequently, integrated control efforts should be tailored to a given epidemiological setting.
Tuberculosis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( MTB ) are two major human infectious diseases that affect approximately one third of the world's population. Chronic helminth infections induce a Th2 immune shift and establish an immunoregulatory milieu in the host. As both of these responses can suppress Th1 immunity, which is necessary for control of infection, we hypothesized that chronic filaria infections may contribute to the development of a protective immune response. Co-infection studies were conducted in cotton rats as they are the natural host for the filarial nematode Litomosoides sigmodontis and are an excellent model for human infection. Immunogical responses, histological studies, and quantitative cultures were assessed two months after infection and in two independent experiments. Spleen cell proliferation and interferon gamma production in response to purified protein derivative were similar between co–infected and MT-only infected animals. In contrast to our hypothesis, MTBs loads and occurrence and size of lung granulomas were not increased. These findings suggest that the cotton rat model may be a useful model to develop worm-derived therapies that do not substantially increase the risk for infections.
Insects utilize diverse families of ion channels to respond to environmental cues and control mating, feeding, and the response to threats. Although degenerin/epithelial sodium channels ( DEG/ENaC ) represent one of the largest families in Drosophila melanogaster, the physiological functions of these proteins are still poorly understood. We have identified pickpocket 23 ( ppk23 ) as a gene that is enriched in gustatory sensory neurons that play a role in normal male-female courtship behavior but not feeding.
Mitochondria from diverse phyla, including protozoa, fungi, higher plants and humans, import tRNAs from the cytosol in order to ensure proper mitochondrial translation. Despite the broad occurrence of this process, our understanding of tRNA import mechanisms is fragmentary, and crucial questions about their regulation remain unanswered. In the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas, a precise correlation was found between the mitochondrial codon usage and the nature and amount of imported nRNA. This led to the hypothesis that mitochondrial import might be a dynamic process able to adapt rapidly to a massive change in mitochondrial genome content. By manipulating its mitochondrial genomes, we introduced point mutations to modify the TRNAGly ( CCC ) and GGT Glycine ( GGG ) codons in the mitochondria. We find that these few modifications result in decreased levels and activities of respiratory complexes, which could be explained by reduced levels of mitochondrial translational machinery.
Diabetes is an increasing problem worldwide; almost 30 million people, nearly 10% of the population, in the United States are diagnosed with diabetes. Another 84 million are prediabetic, and without intervention, up to 70% are expected to develop type 2 diabetes within 4 years. Current methods for quantifying blood glucose dysregulation in diabetes are limited by reliance on single-time-point measurements or on average measures of overall glycemia and neglect glucose dynamics. We have used continuous glucose monitoring ( CGM ) to evaluate the frequency with which individuals demonstrate elevations in postprandial glucose, the types of patterns and how patterns vary between individuals given an identical nutrient challenge. Measurement of insulin resistance and secretion highlights the fact that the physiology underlying dysglycemic excursions is highly variable among individuals. In this work, we developed an analytical framework that can group individuals according to specific patterns of glycemic responses called “glucotypes” that reveal heterogeneity, or subphenotypes, within traditional diagnostic categories of glucose regulation. Our approach can be used to define a clinically relevant metric of sugar variability that would classify individuals into different glucotypes.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) cascades are highly conserved signaling modules that control diverse signal transduction pathways in eukaryotes, including defenses against infection. In this study, we show that EDR1 negatively regulates the MKK4/MKK5-MPK3/ MPK6 kinases cascade pathway in Arabidopsis. We found that the edr1 mutants have highly activated PAMP-induced defense responses, and higher levels of protein levels than wild-type mutants. Furthermore, the mpk3, mkk4 and Mkk5 mutations suppress edrin1-mediated resistance and mildew–induced cell death. Taken together, our data indicate that this pathway plays a negative role in plant innate immunity.
Infectious diseases are one of the primary healthcare problems worldwide, leading to millions of deaths annually. To develop effective control and prevention strategies, we need reliable computational tools to understand disease dynamics and to predict future cases. We developed a computational framework based on Gaussian processes to perform spatiotemporal prediction of infectious diseases and exploited the special structure of similarity matrices in our formulation to obtain a very efficient implementation.
Rift Valley fever virus ( RVFV ) is an important mosquito-borne viral zoonosis in Africa and the Middle East that causes human deaths and significant economic losses due to huge incidences of death and abortion among infected livestock. In this paper, we propose an almost periodic three-patch model to investigate the transmission dynamics of the disease pathogen in Northeastern Africa. Our numerical results show that human activities, including those associated with the Eid al Adha feast, along with a combination of climatic factors such as rainfall level and hydrological variations, contribute to the spread and dispersal of Rift Valley virus. Moreover, sporadic outbreaks may occur when the two events occur together: 1 ) abundant livestock are recruited into areas at risk from the religious festival, 2 ) mosquitoes emerge. These two factors have been shown to have impacts on the severity of RVV outbreaks.
Anthrax is a soil-borne, bacterial zoonosis that is considered a threat in areas with a weakened public health system. The disease has a long history in Azerbaijan, although it is bordered by endemic and hyperendemic countries. In 1996, Azerbaijan experienced a series of livestock anthrax outbreaks that resulted in over 400 animal cases and more than 70 human cases. We used a combination of spatial analysis, cluster detection, and weighted least squares segmented regression to evaluate changes in the spatial distribution of human disease incidence. Results indicated an annual percent change in incidence of +11. 95% from 1984 to 1995 followed by declining rate of −35. 24% after the initiation of the livestock vaccination in 1996. Our findings also revealed geographic variation of reporting; cases were primarily concentrated in west early in our study period and shifted eastward as time progressed. Over twenty years after independence, the distribution and transmission patterns of animal and human diseases have undergone marked changes. Despite decreases in human incidence, continued control measures in livestock are needed to mitigate its occurrence. These findings highlight the need for an integrated “One Health” approach that takes into account the changing geographic distribution.
Voltage-gated potassium ( KV ) channels are membrane-embedded proteins that open and close their central ion-conducting pore in response to changes in the voltage across the membrane. Polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) are essential parts of cell membrane phospholipids of heart cells and neurons and have been found to modulate channel activation via a proposed electrostatic mechanism. While the fatty acid modulatory effects on channel function remain an open question, the molecular mechanism by which PUFA-protein interactions influence the gating mechanism remains elusive. In this study, we report on the interactions between the Shaker KKV channel in both closed and open states using microsecond molecular dynamics simulations. We determined a putative binding site for the channel located at the protein-lipid interface and a lipid bilayer. Our study confirmed an increased conformational flexibility of the polyunaturated carbon tails compared to saturated carbon chains, which may explain the specificity of PUNA action on ion channels.
The protozoan parasite Cryptosporidium parvum is responsible for significant disease burden among children in developing countries. In addition, the disease itself can result in chronic and life-threatening enteritis in AIDS patients, and the currently available drugs lack efficacy in treating these severe conditions. The discovery and development of novel anti-crypto-parasitic therapeutics has been hampered by the poor experimental tractability of this pathogen. While the genome sequencing effort has identified several intriguing new targets including a unique inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase ( IMPDH ), pursuing these targets and testing inhibitors has proven frustratingly difficult. Here we have developed a pipeline of tools to accelerate the in vivo screening of inhibitors of C. parviruses. We have genetically engineered the related apicomplexan parasite Toxoplasma gondii to serve as the first screen. This assay provides crucial target validation and a large signal window that is currently not possible in assays involving the parasite. To further develop compounds that pass this first filter, we established a fluorescence-based assay of host cell proliferation, an automated high-content imaging analysis for enhanced throughput.
Tooth development is a highly heritable process which relates to other growth and developmental processes, and which interacts with the development of the entire craniofacial complex. Abnormalities in tooth development are common, with tooth agenesis being the most common developmental anomaly in humans. We performed a genome-wide association study of time to first tooth eruption and number of teeth at one year in 4, 564 individuals from the 1966 Northern Finland Birth Cohort ( NFBC1966 ) and 1, 518 individuals in the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children ( ALSPAC ). Five genetic loci were identified at the highest level of significance ( P<5×10−8 ), including several genes with links to tooth and other organ development. A variant within the HOXB gene cluster associated with occlusion defects requiring orthodontic treatment by age 31 years.
The trisomy of human chromosome 21 ( Hsa21 ) causes Down syndrome ( DS ), which is the most common viable human aneuploidy. The complete monosomy is lethal, and only partial or mosaic-monosomous regions are seen. Both conditions lead to variable physiological abnormalities with constant intellectual disability, locomotor deficits, reduced muscle tone. To search for dosage-sensitive genes involved in DS and M21 phenotypes, we created two new mouse models: the Ts3Yah carrying a deletion of the Hspa13-App interval syntenic with 21q11. 2-q21. 3. Here we report that the TRISomy and the monozoic regions of this region alter locomotion, muscle strength, mass, energy balance, mitochondrial activity and biogenesis. These genes are downregulated and upregulated in the same mouse model. However, the shift in skeletal muscle metabolism correlates with a change in mitochondrial proliferation without an alteration in respiratory function. This finding was confirmed by alterations in oxidative capacity and mitochondrial content of skeletal muscles.
G protein-gated K+ channels ( GIRK; Kir3 ) are important transducers of inhibitory neurotransmitter effects in heart and brain. They regulate heartbeat, neuronal excitability and plasticity, analgesia, alcohol and drug effects, and are implicated in a number of disorders such as epilepsy, Down syndrome, bipolar disorder, atrial fibrillation and primary aldosteronism. In the present work, we have developed a quantitative model for Ibasal and Ievoked, which uses experimentally determined micro- and macroscopic parameters and accurately simulates the channel’s surface density and its relation to IELK1/2. Furthermore, modeling allowed to assess the apparent molar ratios of Gα and Gβγ expressed in Xenopus oocytes, HEK293 cells and hippocampal neurons. Our analysis indicates that, under all conditions and at different channel expression levels, between 3 and 4 G βγ dimers are available for each channel. The combination of basal and agonist gating by G protein subunits underlie the complex pattern and cooperative nature of both G-protein-coupled receptors.
Plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas bacteria secrete transcription activator-like effectors ( TALEs ) into host cells, where they act as transcriptional activators on plant target genes to support bacterial virulence. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for predicting target sequences based on the quantitative data generated over the last years. Our approach accounts for recent findings concerning the flexible strand orientation of target boxes relative to the transcription start of the downstream target gene. The computational model can account for dependencies between adjacent RVD positions and determine target specificity.
All the possible non-synonymous amino acid changes potentially affecting the human mitochondrial DNA. Only a tiny subset was functionally evaluated with certainty so far, while the pathogenicity of the vast majority was only assessed in-silico by software predictors. Since these tools proved to be rather incongruent, we have designed and implemented APOGEE, a machine-learning algorithm that outperforms all existing prediction methods in estimating the harmfulness of mitochondrial variants, as well as its classification ability.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most common mosquito-transmitted viral infection, infecting approximately 390 million people and causing 500, 000 hospitalizations every year. Thrombocytopenia, a common feature observed in both mild and severe dengues disease, is correlated with disease severity and is considered a predictive biomarker of severe disease. However, the mechanisms that cause thrombinocytosis are not fully understood. In this study, we first demonstrated that nonstructural protein 1 ( NS1 ), which can be secreted into patients’ blood, can stimulate immune cells via Toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) and can cause endothelial leakage. We also found that the activation of platelets was blocked in the presence of anti-NS1 F ( ab‘ ) 2 antibody, an LPS-4 antagonist ( Rhodobacter sphaeroides lipopolysaccharide, LPs-Rs ) ( TAK242 ) but not polymyxin B ( a lPS inhibitor ). Moreover, our results showed that NS 1 could induce platelet activation and enhance aggregation of the cell surface by inducing phosphatidylserine ( PS ) on the surfaces of human-isolated plates. Taken together, these results suggest that intracellular protein kinase 1 can directly activate the immune system and activate cells by activating the TLRs4 signaling pathway.
Visceral smooth muscle, blood volume, and mean arterial pressure are regulated by a series of dynamic control loops, which involve the arginine vasopressin ( AVP ) system, the atrial natriuretic peptide system ( ANP ) and the renin-angiotensin–aldosterone ( RAAS ) systems. Our loop analysis revealed the concurrent presence of two different regulatory mechanisms that perform the same qualitative function: one affects blood pressure by regulating vasoconstriction, while the other is controlled by the activation of myosin light chain kinase ( MLCK ). Both the systems are candidate oscillators consisting of the negative-feedback loop of a monotone system: they admit a single equilibrium that can either be stable or give rise to oscillatory instability. We show that the AAV system is qualitatively equivalent in that it performs its same control function, even though the physiological mechanisms are different.
Thromboembolic disease is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. In the last several years there have been a number of studies attempting to identify mechanisms that stop thrombus growth. This paper identifies a novel mechanism related to formation of a fibrin cap. The network permeability and the protein diffusivity were shown to be important factors determining the transport of proteins through the network. Our previous in vivo studies in mice have shown that stabilized non-occluding thromebi are covered by a protein network ( ‘fibrins cap’ ). Model simulations, calibrated using experiments in microfluidic devices and accounting for the permeable structure of the fibin network, demonstrated that the diffusion and diffusion of protein in a sparse network is important to limit the growth of small clots that frequently form as a result of activation or damage to a few endothelial cells, from growing into symptomatic occlusive clotts.
Invariant natural killer T ( iNKT ) cells are recognized to influence many different immunological conditions including autoimmune disease, asthma and allergy, anti-tumor response, graft-versus-host disease and infection. However, how they limit microbial growth is unknown in most cases. In this study, we used a mouse model of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection to study the effector function of immune cells that are activated during infection, and we found that the activation of these cells was CD1d-dependent and did not require TNF or cell-mediated cytotoxicity. We identified GM-CSF as a novel mediator of T cell antimicrobial activity.
The opportunistic fungal pathogen Candida albicans is a common component of human intestinal flora. To gain insight into the activities of the commensal microorganisms that are important for host colonization or disease, studies of genes expressed by fungi grown within a host were studied. The EFH1 gene, encoding a putative transcription factor, was highly expressed in the intestinal tract. Counterintuitively, an Efg1p-independent expression of several genes was observed during growth within the murine intestine tract and of oral cavity of athymic mice, the latter situation modeling human mucosal candidiasis. In contrast, other mutants are attenuated in virulence following intravenous inoculation but exhibited normal levels of intestinal colonization. These results show that gene expression is regulated by different host niches and the pathway ( s ) that regulates expression during host colonization can differ from well-characterized pathways used during laboratory growth.
Immunization with irradiated sporozoites is currently the most effective vaccination strategy against liver stages of malaria parasites, yet the mechanisms underpinning the success of this approach are unknown. Here we show that the complete development of protective CD8+ T cell responses requires prolonged antigen presentation. Using TCR transgenic cells specific for the malaria circumsporozoite protein, a leading vaccine candidate, we found that antigen persists for over 8 weeks after immunization—a remarkable finding. Persisting antigen was detected in lymphoid organs and depends on the presence of CD11c+ cells. Prolonged presentation enhanced the magnitude of the response in a number of ways. Firstly, reducing the time primed cells were exposed to antigen in vivo severely reduced the final size of a developing memory population. Secondly, fully developed memory cells expanded in previously immunized mice but not when transferred to naïve animals. Finally, persisting antigens were able to prime naïve cells, including recent thymic emigrants, to become functional effector cells capable of eliminating parasites in the liver. Together these data suggest that long term antigen exposure is not required for differentiation of cells but to maximize their expansion.
Most treatments of leishmaniasis require hospitalization and present side effects or parasite resistance; innovations in drug formulation/reposition can overcome these barriers and must be pursued to increase therapeutic alternatives. Therefore, we tested polymyxin B ( polB ) potential to kill Leishmania amazonensis, adsorbed or not in PBCA nanoparticles, which could augment PolB internalization in infected macrophages. Nanoparticles were fabricated by anionic polymerization, analyzed by Dynamic Light Scattering ( size/concentration ), vertical diffusion cell ( release rate, drug incorporation ( indirect method, protein determination ) and in vitro cell viability. We found that the nanoparticle coated with the antimicrobial was adequate size of 261. 5 ± 25. 9 nm, low PDI and ζ of 1. 79 ± 0. 17 mV ( stable for 45 days, at least ). This behavior limits its future application to adjuvant drug delivery of carriers.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is considered an extremely serious public health problem in Latin America. In Brazil since the 1980's, an average of 1, 500 cases was reported each year in Brazil and between 2000–2009 the average increased to 3, 480 cases annually. The disease is systemic and characterized clinically by prolonged fever, weight loss, hypergammaglobulinemia and pancytopenia, and in the absence of treatment, the disease may have fatal consequences. Furthermore, lethality from visceral L. infantum has been influenced by the expansion of human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) in South America, Asia and Africa. Therefore, it is important to understand the determinants of such a poor result in a metropolis presenting active transmission of Leishmania-HIV co-infection.
The Arabidopsis regulatory leucine-rich repeat RLK ( LRR-RLK ) BAK1 is involved in steroid hormone responses, innate immunity, and cell death control. Here, we describe the differential regulation of three different receptor-like-kinases ( RKs ) by bak1-5. Innate immune signaling is severely compromised in planta, but the ligand-induced heteromerization of FLS2 and EFR is completely dispensable for the binding of the receptor kinase BRI1, revealing another pathway specific mechanistic difference. We also show that, in contrast to the RD- and non-RD kinases, the regulatory RBK-dependent signaling pathway is not due to a differential interaction of bAK 1 with the respective ligands but requires the activator-independent activity. Furthermore, our work reveals dramatic differences in the trans-phosphorylation events between the two pathways. Overall our results demonstrate a phosphoryliferative-mediated differential control of plant growth, immune response to pathogen-associated-molecular-pattern ( PAMP ) -triggered immunity ( PTI ).
Anticancer research spans a wide range of scales, from the microscopic/molecular up to the macroscopic level of clinical assessment of treatment efficacy. On an intermediate scale of preclinical testing in vitro and in vivo, cancer research maintains the need to evaluate the antiproliferative activity of old and new treatment options in cancer cell populations, even within populations of genetically identical cells. This calls for a probabilistic view of the single cell response representing a change of perspective compared to exclusively molecularly-driven research. Mathematical modelling is increasingly adopted to tackle biological complexity, together with experimental procedures producing appropriate quantitative data, for in silico rendering of biological structures and processes in different fields and scales.
Coenzyme Q ( CoQ ) is an essential electron carrier in the mitochondrial respiratory chain whose deficiency has been implicated in a wide variety of human mitochondrial disease manifestations. We now show that a presumed autoimmune kidney disease in mice with the missense Pdss2kd/Kd genotype can be attributed to a mitochondrial coenzyme biosynthetic defect. Levels of coQ9 and coq10 in kidney homogenates were significantly lower than those in B6 control mice. Disease manifestations originate specifically in glomerular podocytes, as renal disease is seen in Podocin/cre, Podosin, and LoxP knockout mice but not in conditional knockouts targeted to renal tubular epithelium, monocyte, or hepatocytes. Liver-conditional B7. Alb/Cre, P.ss 2lox/kD mice have no overt disease despite demonstration that their livers have undetectable Co Q9 levels, impaired respiratory capacity, significantly altered intermediary metabolism as evidenced by transcriptional profiling and amino acid quantitation. These data suggest that tissue-specific respiratory capacities thresholds are important for the development of chronic disease.
All forms of life are confronted with environmental and genetic perturbations, making phenotypic robustness an important characteristic. However, the underlying mechanism is not well understood. Here we report that developmental cell lineages of two protostomes and one deuterostome are structured such that the resulting cellular compositions of the organisms are only modestly affected by cell deaths. Several features of these cell lines, including their shallowness, topology, early ontogenic appearances of rare cells, and non-clonality of most cell types, are underlie the robustnesses. Simple simulations of cell lineage evolution demonstrate the possibility that, as an adaptation in the face of random cell death in development. These results reveal general organizing principles of determinative developmental cells and a conceptually new mechanism of phenotype. Both of which have important implications for development and evolution.
Phenomics is the acquisition of high-dimensional phenotypic data on an organism-wide scale. It is both analogous and complementary to genomics and has a similar capacity to facilitate advances in biology. However, it is now recognised that in many ways, the challenges of phenomics dwarf those faced at the advent of modern genetics. In this study, we present Embryo, an open-source platform for the quantification and integration of interindividual and intraindividual temporal change in morphological, physiological, and behavioural traits with high resolution and to an unprecedented scale in a largely automated workflow. We demonstrate the applicability of this platform in two ecologically important species with radically different patterns of development—the pond snail Radix balthica and the marine amphipod Orchestia gammarellus.
Malaria parasites ( Plasmodium spp. ) encounter markedly different ( nutritional ) environments during their complex life cycles in the mosquito and human hosts. Adaptation to these different host niches is associated with a dramatic rewiring of metabolism, from a highly glycolytic metabolism in asexual blood stages to increased dependence on tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) metabolism. Here we have used metabolomic and reverse genetic approaches to investigate the metabolic changes that occur in key insect stages of the experimentally tractable species P. berghei and determine the functional significance of these changes on parasite survival. We find that these stages are highly sensitive to disruptions in multiple pathways in central carbon metabolism including the metabolism of glutamine as a carbon source, intermediary metabolism and coenzyme A ( CoA ) synthesis. These data extend our knowledge of parasite biology and point towards possible targets for transmission-blocking intervention strategies. Furthermore, these data highlight significant metabolic differences between parasite species which are not easily anticipated based on genomics or transcriptomics studies and underline the importance of integration of metabolomics data with other platforms in order to better inform drug discovery and design.
Many biological signaling pathways exhibit the ability to differentiate between pulsatile and sustained signals in the regulation of downstream gene expression. While the networks underlying this signal decoding are diverse, many are built around a common motif, the incoherent feedforward loop ( IFFL ), in which an input simultaneously activates an output and an inhibitor of the output. With appropriate parameters, this motif can exhibit temporal adaptation, where the system is desensitized to a sustained input. This property serves as the foundation for distinguishing input signals with varying temporal profiles. Here, we use quantitative modeling to examine another property of IFFs—the ability of a network to process oscillatory signals. Our results indicate that the network’s ability is limited by two constraints. The kinetics and input signal characteristics dictate the input range for which the neural progenitor cells are able to decode oscillatile dynamics. We elucidate one potential mechanism by which information processing occurs in natural networks, and our work has implications for the design of synthetic gene circuits for this purpose.
Scrub typhus is a serious febrile illness of broad geographical diversity, endemic in the majority of rural Asia and northern areas of Australia. Clinical symptoms resemble that of a number of other tropical diseases including malaria, dengue, leptospirosis, and other bacterial infections, but rapid, unambiguous diagnosis is often unavailable. One reason why research into the fundamental mechanisms of cellular infection by Orientia tsutsugamushi is less well characterised is because of the technical difficulties and uncertainties associated with culturing this bacterium in vitro. In this study we have performed a body of work designed to improve methods for quantification, propagation, purification and long-term storage of this important but neglected human pathogen. These results will be useful to other researchers working on the Rickettsiales family and also other obligate intracellular pathogens.
Schistosomiasis is one of the most prevalent parasitic diseases in the tropical and subtropical countries of Africa and the Middle East affecting approximately 107 million people. The disease is caused by the helminth parasite Schistomosoma haematobium and is controlled by treatment of infected people with the anti-helminths drug praziquantel ( PZQ ). Children aged up to 5 years are currently excluded from the control programmes largely due to the lack of safety data in this age group. This study investigated the safety and efficacy of treatment in such children. Zimbabwean children aged 1–5 years ( n =100 ) and older children ( 6–10 year olds ) were treated with PzQ tablets and side effects were assessed by questionnaire administered to their caregivers. Treatment efficacy was determined 6 weeks after the administration of P. ZQ treatment and treatment efficacy were determined by schistoome egg counts in urine samples from 15 of these children, which were compared to that in 6 and 10 year old children with an egg reduction rate of 99% and cure rate ( CR ) of 92% respectively. Of the 104 children treated, 3. 8% reported adverse effects within 24 hours of taking the drug. These were stomach ache, loss of appetite, lethargy and inflammation of body and face and body.
Oncogenic mutations in the small GTPase Ras contribute to ~30% of human cancers. However, Ras mutations alone are insufficient for tumorigenesis, therefore it is paramount to identify cooperating cancer-relevant signaling pathways. We devised an in vivo near genome-wide, functional screen in Drosophila and discovered multiple novel, evolutionarily-conserved pathways controlling Ras-driven epithelial growth and metastasis. Human gene orthologs of the fly hits were significantly downregulated in thousands of primary tumors, revealing novel prognostic markers for human epithel tumors. Of the top 100 candidate tumor suppressor genes, 80 were validated in secondary studies, identifying many known cancer genes and multiple new candidate genes that cooperate with Ras induced tumor expansion and invasion. Low expression of Tetraspanin family member Tsp29Fb significantly correlated with the KRASG12 mutation status and poor prognosis in pancreatic cancer. Among the novel top 80 candidate cancer gene, we mechanistically characterized the function of a top hit, the Top Hit, and experimentally confirmed the role of it in regulating EGFR/Ras induced cancer growth.
Meiotic drivers are selfish alleles that subvert gametogenesis to increase their transmission into progeny. Drivers impose a fitness cost, putting pressure on the genome to evolve suppressors. Here, we investigate the wtf gene family from Schizosaccharomyces pombe, previously shown to contain meiotic driver in wild isolates. We discovered that this gene kills spores that do not inherit it by generating both a diffusible poison and a spore-specific antidote. Wtf13 is suppressed by another gene that arose spontaneously in the lab and makes only an antidote, which rescues only the spores. This study establishes a novel paradigm for the mechanisms and evolution of drive suppression.
Many genetic variants that are significantly correlated to gene expression changes across human individuals have been identified, but the ability of these variants to predict expression of unseen individuals has rarely been evaluated. Here, we devise an algorithm that, given training expression and genotype data for a set of individuals, predicts the expression level of genes of unknown unseen test individuals given only their genotypes in the local genomic vicinity of the predicted gene. Notably, the resulting predictions are remarkably robust in that they agree well between the training and test sets, even when they consist of people from distinct populations. Thus, although the overall number of gene that can be predicted is relatively small, as expected from our choice to ignore effects such as environmental factors and trans sequence variation, our robust nature of our algorithm means that the identity and quantitative degree to which genes are predicted accurately is known in advance with high accuracy. We also present an extension that incorporates heterogeneous types of genomic annotations to differentially weigh the importance of each genetic variant, and we show that assigning higher weights to variants with particular annotations like proximity to genes and high regional G/C content can further improve the predictions.
Malarial infections are often genetically diverse, leading to competitive interactions between parasites. A quantitative understanding of the competition between strains is essential to understand a wide range of issues, including the evolution of virulence and drug resistance. In this study, we use dynamical-model-based Bayesian inference to investigate the cause of competitive suppression of an avirulent clone of Plasmodium chabaudi ( AS ) in immuno-deficient and competent mice. We found that just one parameter, the ratio of background loss rate of merozoites and parasitised red blood cells ( RBCs ), needed to be clone-specific to predict the data. Interestingly, this difference was the same for both clones in single-clone infections, but different between them in mixed infections. This explains why the suppression was alleviated.
DNA replication errors are a major driver of evolution—from single nucleotide polymorphisms to large-scale copy number variations ( CNVs ). Here we test a specific replication-based model to explain the generation of interstitial, inverted triplications in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. While no genetic information is lost, the novel inversion junctions and increased copy size of the included sequences create the potential for adaptive phenotypes. The model—Origin-Dependent Inverted-Repeat Amplification ( ODIRA ) —proposes that a replication error at pre-existing short, interrupted repeats in genomic sequences generates an inverted dimeric, autonomously replicating intermediate; subsequent genomic integration of this intermediate yields this class of CNV without loss of distal chromosomal sequences.
Translation can initiate at alternate, non-canonical start codons in response to stressful stimuli in mammalian cells. Recent studies suggest that viral infection and anti-viral responses alter sites of translation initiation, and in some cases, lead to production of novel immune epitopes. Here we use ribosome profiling, the high-throughput sequencing of mRNA fragments, to experimentally delineate the genome-wide landscape of translational initiation in influenza virus lineages that have adapted to mammalian hosts. We show that one of these candidate start sites truncates 14 amino acids from the N1 neuraminidase protein, resulting in loss of its cytoplasmic tail and a portion of the transmembrane domain. On the host side, we identify an excess of alternate initiation sites on transcripts that are upregulated during the antiviral response. Together, our results highlight how alternate translation can alter the protein-coding capacity of both viruses and the cells that they infect.
Enteropathogenic E. coli ( EHEC ) causes a severe bloody diarrhea following transmission to humans through consumption of fruit juice, raw/undercooked meat, and vegetables contaminated with manure, including contaminated beef and vegetable products, water, or through contact with animals. In many cases, the mechanisms by which these effectors bind to host proteins and disrupt the normal function of intestinal epithelial cells have not been completely characterized. Here, we show that the enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7 NleH proteins play an important role in host-pathogen interactions by binding to the human ribosomal protein S3 ( RPS3 ), a newly identified subunit of activated B cells ( NF-κB ) transcriptional complexes. Our results suggest a potentially novel mechanism for bacterial effector-mediated disruption of host innate responses to infection.
Transcription factor ( TF ) binding to its DNA target site is a fundamental regulatory interaction. The most common model used to represent TF binding specificities is the position specific scoring matrix ( PSSM ), which assumes independence between binding positions. However, in many cases, this simplifying assumption does not hold. Here, we present a novel probabilistic method for modeling TF–DNA interactions, based on log-linear models. We develop the mathematical formulation of our model and devise an algorithm for learning its structural features from binding site data, and develop a discriminative motif finder that discovers de novo FMMs that are enriched in target sets of sequences compared to background sets. Our algorithm is available at http://genie. weizmann. ac. il/.
The sympathetic nervous system stimulates the fight-or-flight response of innervated target tissues by localized release of catecholamine neurotransmitters from the nerve terminals. Knockout mice for this gene show physiological and behavioural alterations. There is evidence of positive selection on the regulation of the gene during chicken domestication. Here, we find that the neuronal expression of ADRA2C is lower in human and chimpanzee than in other primates. We identified a cis-regulatory region whose DNA sequences have been significantly accelerated in humans and chimpanzees. Active histone modification marks this region in rhesus macaque but not in the human population; instead, repressive marks are enriched in various human brain samples. This region contains two neuron-restrictive silencer factor ( NRSF ) binding motifs, each of which harbours a polymorphism. Our genotyping and analysis of population genome data indicate that at both polymorphic sites, the derived allele has reached fixation, whereas only the ancestral allele is present among bonobos.
The C4 photosynthetic pathway represents one of the most remarkable examples of convergent evolution. The recurrent evolution of this highly complex trait involving alterations to leaf anatomy, cell biology and biochemistry allows an increase in productivity by ∼50% in tropical and subtropical areas. We developed a new informatics framework to enable deep evolutionary comparison of gene expression in species lacking reference genomes. Using this framework, we define a cohort of 3, 335 genes that represent conserved components of leaf and photosynthesis development in the dicotyledon Cleome gynandra and characterised patterns of expression underlying this process. Despite the wide evolutionary separation and independent origins of these species we show that the same genetic networks are responsible for the repeated appearance of a complex phenotype. This finding has major implications for engineering C3 crops such as rice. Thus, exploitation of extant natural variation associated with complex traits can be used to identify regulators.
An unprecedented Ebola virus ( EBOV ) epidemic occurred in 2013–2016 in West Africa. Over this time the epidemic exponentially grew and moved to Europe and North America, with several imported cases and many Health Care Workers ( HCW ) infected. Better understanding of viral infection patterns in different body compartments is mandatory to develop new countermeasures, as well as to fully comprehend the pathways of human-to-human transmission. We have longitudinally explored the potential role of the respiratory tract in viral replication and shedding in a human case of Ebola Virus Disease ( EVD ). The presence of negative sense genomic RNA ( neg-RNA ) and positive sense RNA, including both replication intermediate ( antigenomic and messenger RNA ) molecules, in the upper and lower respiratory tracts as compared to plasma samples, suggests possible local replication. However, further investigation is needed in order to better understand the clinical meaning of VeroE6 cell culture.
Machupo virus ( MACV ) from the clade B of New World arenaviruses is the etiological agent of Bolivian hemorrhagic fever ( BHF ). Junin virus, a close relative of JUNV, is also an etiologic agent. In this study, we report that a recombinant, chimeric MacV ( rMACV/Cd#1-GPC ) expressing the ectodomain of GPC was completely attenuated in a murine model and protects animals from lethal challenge with the macromolecular pathogen. A single F438I substitution in the transmembrane domain ( TMD ), which is equivalent to the F427I attenuating mutation, was sufficient to fully attenuate the virus in IFN-αβ/γ R-/- mice, indicating that other domains of the glycoprotein are also important for the attenuation and immunogenicity of these viruses.
Accurate segregation of eukaryotic chromosomes into daughter cells requires the presence of a centromere. Centromeres are, in most species, a region on each chromosome that directs the assembly of the kinetochore during mitosis and meiosis. To better define CENH3 functional constraints, we complemented a null allele in Arabidopsis with a variety of mutant alleles, each inducing a single amino acid change in the histone fold domain. Many of these transgenic missense lines displayed wild-type growth and fertility on self-pollination, but exhibited frequent post-zygotic death and uniparental inheritance when crossed with wild type plants. The failure of centromere-inducing lines marked by these mutations reproduces the genome elimination syndromes described with chimeric and non-transgenic haploid inducers from diverged species. Additionally, evidence that a one point mutation is sufficient to generate haploids in existing mutagenized collections of crop species provides a simple one-step method for the identification of genetic variants.
The differentiation of embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) in vitro is a powerful system for identifying developmental cues required for proper cell fate commitment. However, the mechanisms that regulate ESC maintenance upstream and downstream of these core regulatory components are poorly understood, largely because of the difficulty of obtaining pure populations of fully differentiated cells and the lack of detailed transcript expression profiles that allow the analysis of transcription and alternative splicing ( AS ). To better define these regulatory cues, we modified the H9 HESC line to allow selection of pluripotent hESCs by neomycin resistance and cardiac progenitors by puri-resistance. Exon-level microarray expression data from undifferentiated cells were used to identify splice isoforms with cardiac-restricted or common cardiac/neural differentiation expression patterns. Splice events for these groups corresponded to the pathways of cytoskeletal remodeling, RNA-splicing, muscle specification, and cell cycle checkpoint control as well as genes with serine/threonine kinase and helicase activity. Using a new program named Alt Analyze ( http://www. AltAnalyze. org ) we identified novel changes in protein domain and microRNA binding site architecture that were predicted to affect protein function and expression. By combining genome-wide predictions and new functional annotations, our data suggest potential mechanism that may influence lineage commitment and hesC maintenance at the level of specific mRNA isoform/microRNA regulation.
Trehalose is an abundant disaccharide found in many different groups of organisms with the notable exemption of mammals. It is required for the viability and/or virulence of several fungal, helminthic and bacterial pathogens, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis, but not mammals, and is thus considered an attractive target for development of antimicrobial drugs. The most common biosynthetic route involves trehalosyltransferase ( T6P ) synthase OtsA, which catalyzes the transfer of nucleoside diphosphate-activated glucose ( ADP-glucose ) to the periplasm, where they serve as substrates of the antigen 85 complex. However, in order to assess the drug target potential of this pathway, we generated a conditional mutant of M. tuberculosis allowing the regulated gene silencing of otsB2. We found that the essentiality of a gene in this mutant is dependent on the synthesis of an endogenously formed sugar phosphate molecule, maltose-1-phosphatase. In addition, the overexpression of one of these toxins elicited a global upregulation of more than 800 genes that might result from an increase in RNA stability implied by the enhanced neutralization of toxins exhibiting ribonuclease activity. Surprisingly, overlap with this stress response was minimal. Thus, a genome-wide screen for synthetic lethal interactions with an essential gene identified numerous genes, revealing additional potential drug targets synergistic with a key enzyme in a novel pathway.
Chagas' disease, caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, is a life-threatening illness affecting 11–18 million people from southern USA to southern Argentina. The need for new drugs is urgent with current treatments having poor efficacy and safety profiles, particularly in the late stage of the disease when the parasite has infected critical organs. Recent studies have revealed an essential T-cruzi proline racemase enzyme ( TcPR ) as an attractive candidate for improved chemotherapeutic intervention. In this work, we describe advanced accelerated molecular dynamics simulations that extend the effective simulation time and capture large-scale motions of functional relevance. Conservation and fragment mapping analyses identified potential conformational epitopes located within the vicinity of newly identified transient binding pockets. This work represents an important step toward the rationalization of TCR initiated B-cell response and provides a basis for future structure-based drug discovery.
In the post-genome era, a major challenge is deciphering the function of thousands of newly identified genes. One of the main approaches for studying gene function involves inactivation of genes in cells or animals using random ( chemical or insertional ) mutagenesis or gene targeting. A common problem with these methods stems from the fact that the gene of interest is usually mutated throughout the animal's life. As a result, 1 ) in many cases the mutation leads to embryonic or neonatal lethality, precluding the assessment of gene's function in later life; 2 ) life-long absence of a gene product causes compensatory adjustments of activities of other genes that precludes the elucidation of its function. In this study, we have developed a system for the inducible and reversible gene expression in the mouse, which allows for sensitive and quantitative phenotypic analyses. The results demonstrated reversible switching of ApoE transcription, plasma cholesterol levels, and atherosclerosis progression and regression. This system is a versatile genetic system that can easily incorporate other techniques and adapt to a wide range of applications.
Congenital infection of Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease, allows transmission of this parasite from one generation to another, in endemic and non-endemic regions. Despite the problematic that this entails, little is known about the placenta environment genetic response produced against infection. We performed functional genomics by microarray analysis in C57Bl/6J mice comparing Placentas from uninfected animals and from animals infected with two different strains: K98 and VD ( TcI ), isolated from a human case of congenital infections. Analysis of networks by GeneMANIA of differentially expressed genes showed that “Secretory Granule” was a pathway down-regulated in both infected groups, whereas the pathways related to cascade signaling had opposite regulation. Our study is the first one to describe in a murine model the genetic responses of placental environment to T-cruzi infection and suggests the development of a strong immune response, parasite genotype-dependent, to the detriment of cellular metabolism.
The arthritogenic alphaviruses Sindbis virus ( SINV ) cause disease mainly in tropical and sub-tropical countries, and in northern Europe it is suggested to cause regularly reoccurring outbreaks. Here a seven-year cycle is referred to in scientific papers, although the hypothesis is based solely on reported human cases. In the search for a more objective outbreak signal, we evaluated mosquito abundance and prevalence in vector mosquitoes from an endemic area in central Sweden. Vector mosquitoes collected in the River Dalälven floodplains during the years before, during and after the hypothesised 2002 outbreak year were assayed for virus on cell culture. Obtained isolates were partially sequenced and the nucleotide sequences analysed using Bayesian maximum clade credibility and median joining network analysis. Only one strain was recovered in 2001 and 4 strains in 2003, while 15 strains were recover in 2002 with significantly increased infection rates in both the enzootic and bridge-vector Aedes cinereus. The genetic analysis revealed local maintenance of four SinV-I clades over the many years. Our findings suggest that increased prevalence of the mosquito-borne virus constitutes the most valuable outbreak marker for further scrutinising the hypothesized seven year cycle.
Neuronal circuits implement a variety of coding strategies that differ in their reliance on precise timing and correlations between action potentials ( “spikes” ). Among these strategies, oscillations, synchronization and precise spike timing are central in influential models of cortical learning and neural development. The locust olfactory system, in which dense, transiently synchronized spike trains across ensembles of antenna lobe ( AL ) neurons are transformed into a sparse representation in the mushroom body ( MB; a region associated with memory ), provides a well-studied preparation for investigating the interaction of multiple coding mechanisms. In this study, we explored with a biologically plausible model the possibility that a form of plasticity may control the selectivity for synchronized input, generating sparse, reliable and persistent representations to familiar or meaningful odors.
The mapping of the human genome resulted in new technologies for studying complex diseases such as coronary artery disease ( CAD ) from a functional genomic perspective. By revealing comprehensive repertoires of molecular activities, these technologies combined with systems biology analyses will pave the way for a more detailed understanding of common disorders—a prerequisite to advance molecular diagnostics for early identification of disease and to identify central disease pathways for therapies tailored to specific disease mechanisms.
Cyanobacteria have been shown to possess a self-sustained circadian clock. However, it is still not known which phospho-state of KaiC promotes kaiBC transcription. We systematically analyzed various combinations of positive and negative transcriptional feedback regulation by introducing a combined TTFL/PTO model consisting of our previous post-translational oscillator ( PTO ). Our model simulations suggest that the peak expression ratio is the main factor for how the different two-loop feedback models respond to removal or to overexpression.
Human Immunodeficiency type 2 virus ( HIV-2 ) is a Lentivirus responsible for a less pathogenic infection than HIV type 1 virus, characterized by slow clinical progression, prolonged maintenance of CD4 lymphocytes counts, and a high proportion of untreated individuals with undetectable plasma viral load ( pVL ). However, the pathophysiological mechanisms explaining these lower viral loads compared to HIV/SIV infection remain little explored. Antiretroviral-naive individuals from the ANRS-CO5 ( 12 non-progressors, 2 progressors ) were prospectively included. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were sorted into monocytes and resting T-cell subsets ( naive, central- [TCM], transitional- (TTM ) ) and effector-memory ( TEM ), respectively. Reactivation of HIV was tested in 30-day cultures of TTM and CD8-depleted PBMCs. The virus was detected in the cells from only 3 individuals, but in TCM it was found to be less infected than in D. These findings shed new light on the low pathogenicity of virus infection suggesting mechanisms close to those reported in other models of attenuated HIV infection models.
Visuospatial attention produces myriad effects on the activity and selectivity of cortical neurons. Spiking neuron models capable of reproducing a wide variety of these effects remain elusive. We present a model called the Attentional Routing Circuit ( ARC ) that provides a mechanistic description of selective attentional processing in cortex. The model is implemented in spiking neurons and specifies how top-down feedback signals can be used to perform selective routing of attended visual stimuli. Specifically, we demonstrate that the model exhibits shrinking and shifting, but not amplitude changes of spatial receptive field ( RF ) profiles; an increase of tuning curve gain without sharpening; and response gain effects in neuronal contrast-response functions.
Atrial fibrillation ( AF ) is a morbid and heritable arrhythmia. Over 35 genes have been reported to underlie AF, most of which were described in small candidate gene association studies. Replication remains lacking for most, and therefore the contribution of coding variation to AF susceptibility remains poorly understood. We examined whole exome sequencing data in a large community-based sample of 1, 734 individuals with and 9, 423 without AF from the Framingham Heart Study, Cardiovascular Health Study and NHLBI-GO Exome Sequencing Project and meta-analyzed the results. None of the 99, 404 common variants evaluated was significantly associated with AF after adjusting for multiple testing. Among the most associated variants was a common ( allele frequency = 86% ) missense variant in SYNPO2L ( rs3812629, p. Pro707Leu, [odds ratio 1. 27, 95% confidence interval 1. 13–1. 43, P = 6. 6x10-5] ) which is in linkage disequilibrium with a top marker from prior analyses at the locus. In conclusion, we did not observe associations between coding genetic variants and AF. Efforts to identify biologically meaningful coding variants underlying AF may require large sample sizes or populations enriched for large genetic effects.
Alveolar echinococcosis ( AE ) caused by Echinococcus multilocularis infections is a dangerous old disease in the Northern Hemisphere. The aim of the paper was to collect and analyze the clinical and epidemiological data on human AE in Poland. Altogether 121 human cases of AE were detected. Among these 83 ( 68, 6% ) cases were classified as confirmed, 16 as probable and 22 as possible. During the two decades a continuous increase in detection rate was noticed. In all cases the liver was the primary location of human disease. Patients were 6–82 years old at the time of diagnosis ( mean age at death - 47. 7 years ). Sex ratio M/F was 0. 86/1. 0, and the AE was fatal in 23% patients. Family agglomeration of this disease was found in 4 foci, involving 9 patients, in 30% of patients a spread to other organs was observed. Ninety four of these patients were treated with albendazole. A surgical operation was performed, including 15 liver transplantations.
Zinc fluxes are involved in regulating a wide variety of cellular functions, including host immune activation, oocyte maturation and fertilization, glucose-induced insulin secretion, and pathogenicity. The ability of commensal organisms to adapt to the host environment depends upon the ability to withstand large fluctuations in local zinc concentration. To understand how microorganisms coordinate a dynamic response to changes in zinc availability at the molecular level, we evaluated the structure of a zinc-sensing zinc uptake regulator ( Zur ) protein at each of the known Zur-regulated genes in Escherichia coli. We show that this metalloregulatory protein represses gene expression by a highly cooperative binding of two adjacent dimers to essentially encircle the core element of each Zur regulon. This binding requires a pair of asymmetric salt bridges between Arg52 and Asp49′ that connect otherwise independent dimerization domains. Our structural and thermodynamic data allow identification of specific-sequence recognition elements that give rise to differential DNA recognition within the Zur family of proteins.
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is a mosquito-borne zoonotic disease that causes high morbidity and mortality in ruminants. In 2008–2009, a major outbreak affected the whole Madagascar island, including the Anjozorobe district located in Madagascar highlands. An entomological survey showed that Aedes mosquitoes were too rare to explain the recurrent virus circulation in this area, and an overall low abundance of mosquitoes due to unfavorable climatic conditions during winter. No serological nor virological sign of infection was observed in wild terrestrial mammals of the area. The study also identified the villages where animals bought on markets ( located outside the study area ) had been introduced and the number of animals introduced in one year from these markets. To achieve these goals a spatial deterministic metapopulation model combined with cattle trade network was designed and parameterized to reproduce the local conditions. Multi-model inference methods resulted in a model incorporating both a low level winter vector-based transmission and a direct transmission between animals when viraemic cows calve. Predictions were robust according to the sensitivity analysis. Interweaving between agricultural works in rice fields, seasonality of vector proliferation and cattle exchange practices could be a key element for understanding RV FV circulation.
The Asian tiger mosquito, Aedes albopictus, is an extremely invasive and aggressive daytime-biting mosquito that is a major public health threat throughout its expanding range. We used a combination of nuclear microsatellite loci ( on 911 individuals ) and mitochondrial COI sequences to gain a better understanding of the historical and contemporary movements of this mosquito within the Indo-Pacific region and to characterize its population structure. Approximate Bayesian computation ( ABC ) was employed to test competing historical routes of invasion of Ae. albe, which could be the result of genetic drift or represent a secondary invasion from an unknown source. For the first time documented in this invasive species, we provide evidence of a recently colonized population ( the Torres Strait Islands ) that has undergone rapid temporal changes in its genetic makeup. There appears to be high spatial genetic structure and high gene flow between some geographically distant populations. The species’ geographic structure in the region tends to favour a dispersal pattern driven mostly by human movements. Importantly, this study provides a more widespread sampling distribution of its native range, revealing more spatial populations structure than previously shown.
Schistosomiasis is a serious neglected tropical disease and a major public health problem especially in Sub-Saharan Africa. The United Republic of Tanzania has the second highest number of cases in the region ( 19 million ) only surpassed by Nigeria’s 29 million. In Tanzania, the intestinal form caused by S. mansoni is especially abundant in school-age children, adolescents and in fishing communities. Chronic infection triggers host immune reactions which leads to granuloma formation in intestines, liver and spleen leading to hepatosplenic disease characterized by liver enlargement, portal hypertension and oesophageal varices. Chronic infections particularly in children lead to marked non-specific symptoms such as anaemia, chronic inflammation, malnutrition and impaired growth, impaired mental development and general body weakness. Ultrasonography ( US ) is the method of choice for detection and differentiation of liver pathology. This study investigated the effect of infection on a panel of morbidity indicators with emphasis on physical fitness and quality of life among schoolchildren in Mwanza Region, Tanzania.
Leptospirosis is a zoonosis found worldwide that is caused by a spirochete of the genus Leptopira. The main reservoirs are wild rodents, including the brown rat ( Rattus norvegicus ). Experimental studies of its renal colonization in rats have previously used an intraperitoneal inoculation route. However, knowledge of rat-rat transmission requires the use of a natural route of infection, such as a mucosal or subcutaneous route in rat colonies. We investigated for the first time the effects of two natural disease transmission routes in adult rats. Infection characteristics were studied using the renal isolation, serology, and molecular and histological analyses. Our results showed that infection was asymptomatic using each infection route and caused similar antibody production regardless of kidney colonization. These results can facilitate understanding the infection modalities of rats, unlike the epidemiological studies conducted in wild rats and allow the investigation of pathogenicity.
Sepsis is a progressive disease manifesting excessive inflammatory responses, severe tissue injury, organ dysfunction, and, ultimately, mortality. Since currently, there are limited therapeutic options for this disease, further understanding the molecular pathogenesis of sepsis may help develop effective treatments. Here we identify a novel role for Annexin A2 ( AnxA2 ), a multi-compartmental protein, in inhibiting pro-inflammatory response by regulating reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and IL-17 signaling. In cecal ligation and puncture, anxa2-/- mice manifested increased proinflammatory cytokines and neutrophil infiltration, but decreased bacterial clearance and animal survival. Using site directed mutagenesis, we uncovered that cysteine 9 was the most important aa ( site ) for regulation of ROS levels. Furthermore, ROS appears to be responsible for elevated IL -17A levels and subsequently exaggerated inflammatory response. Depletion of IL17 via CRISPR/Cas9 KO strategy down-regulated inflammation and conferred protection against the mice. Our findings reveal a previously undemonstrated function for A1 in mediating ROS-mediated inflammation in polymicrobial septic models.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) infection of monocytes/macrophages plays a key role in viral pathogenesis and progression to AIDS. Intrinsic factors such as Toll-like receptors ( TLRs ) and bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) are known to decrease HIV infection in monocyte-derived macrophage ( MDMs ), but the mechanism ( s ) of these effects are incompletely understood. We found that poly ( I∶C ) -stimulation abrogated infection by CCR5-using, mRNAs-tropic HIV, and by vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein-pseudotyped virions, while TLR3 stimulation and ectopic miR-155 expression only partially reduced infection to varying extent. Suppression of infection, or lack thereof, did not correlate with differential effects on CD4 or CD5 expression, type I interferon induction or production of pro-inflammatory cytokines or β-chemokines, suggesting a potential mechanism for its novel anti-HIV effect.
Plants use daily light/dark cycles as timing cues to control many essential physiological processes. In plants, growth rates of the embryonic stem ( hypocotyl ) are maximal at different times of day, depending on the external photoperiod and the internal circadian clock. However, the interactions between light signaling, circadian clocks, and growth-promoting hormone pathways in growth control remain poorly understood. To determine the transcriptional component associated with the rhythmic control of growth, we applied temporal analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana seedling transcriptome under multiple growth conditions and mutant backgrounds using DNA microarrays. We show that a group of plant hormone-associated genes are coexpressed at the time when the growth rate is maximal. This expression correlates with overrepresentation of a cis-acting element ( CACATG ) in phytohormone gene promoters, which is sufficient to confer the predicted diurnal and circadian expression patterns in vivo. Our findings provide a framework for understanding how seedlings transition from dark-dependent to light-independent growth after germination and respond appropriately to both acute and long-term changes in the light environment.
Rhodnius prolixus is an efficient vector of Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease, and is primarily controlled by domiciliary insecticide applications. Oral delivery of dsRNA has been proposed as a method to control insect pests such as termites, fruit flies, flour beetles, pea aphids, tobacco hornworms and honeybees, among others. The sustainability of this method in the Central American and Andean regions is limited by the potential re-infestation by species from sylvatic habitats. We propose that oral delivery should affect the normal development of nymphs and female fecundity.
Fever in pregnancy is dangerous for both mother and foetus. In the 1980's malaria was the leading cause of death in pregnant women in refugee camps on the Thai-Burmese border. Artemisinin combination therapy has significantly reduced the incidence of malaria in the population. The remaining causes of febrile illness are not well documented. Pregnant women attending antenatal care, where weekly screening for malaria is routine, were invited to have a comprehensive clinical and laboratory screen if they had fever. Women were admitted to hospital, treated and followed up weekly until delivery. A convalescent serum was collected on day 21. Delivery outcomes were recorded. Febrily episodes occurred in 5. 0% ( 409/8, 117 ) of pregnancy. Infection was observed in 3. 9% of women, mostly malaria and rickettsia. Pyelonephritis, 19. 7%, and acute respiratory illness were also important causes for fever associated with poor pregnancy outcomes including stillbirth and low birth weight.
Meiotic recombination is crucial in both driving the evolution of genomes and ensuring faithful segregation of pairs of homologous chromosomes during gametogenesis. In most mammals, there are important sex-differences in the distribution of crossovers along the genome. For example, more than 20% of oocytes exhibit an abnormal number of chromosomes relative to males, and yet very few aneuploid embryos are viable. Therefore, age-related effects are of major importance, especially in relation to the mechanisms involved in human trisomies. Here, we examine the relationship between maternal age and meiosis rates in humans using dense genome-wide genotyping of 69 French-Canadian pedigrees. We observed a significant decrease in meiotic rate in maternal and paternal transmissions, likely driven by chromosome-specific effects. The effect appears to be localized in chromosomal arms and near subtelomeric regions. Our results suggest that, for some chromosomes, protection against non-disjunction provided by recombinination becomes less efficient with advancing maternal sex.
The ability of innate immune cells to possess memory like-responses upon re-exposure to an antigen has been documented in plants, insects, and more recently, mammals. Memory-like responses by innate cells have been termed innate memory or “trained” immunity and provide proof-of-concept that protection can be achieved in immunocompromised patients. However, the effector cell population and mechanism responsible for protection is unknown. In the current studies, we utilized an experimental immunization strategy to induce memory in macrophages in vivo to demonstrate the induction of protective immunity against disease in vaccinated B cell-deficient mice and CD4+/CD8+ T cells-depleted mice. We observed a rapid up-regulation of IFN-γ and STAT1 signaling pathways following secondary challenge. The enhanced cytokine recall responses appeared to be pathogen-specific, dependent on changes in histone methylation and acetylation, as well as correlated with increased expression of genes associated with protective anti-fungal immunity. Thus, this study provides a novel and effective mechanism for inducing vaccine-mediated protection.
Polycomb repressive complexes ( PRCs ) play crucial roles in transcriptional repression and developmental regulation in both plants and animals. In plants, depletion of different members of PcGs causes both overlapping and unique phenotypic defects. However, the underlying molecular mechanism determining the target specificity and functional diversity is not sufficiently characterized. Here, we quantitatively compared changes of tri-methylation at H3K27 in Arabidopsis mutants deprived of various key PRC components. We show that CURLY LEAF ( CLF ), a major catalytic subunit of PR2 complex, coordinates with different subunits to repress different plant developmental programs. This context-dependent role is remarkably associated with differential co-occupancy of binding motifs of transcription factors ( TFs ) including MADS box and ABA-related factors.
The active sites of multisubunit RNA polymerases have a “trigger loop” ( TL ) that multitasks in substrate selection, catalysis, and translocation to the next template position. To dissect the Saccharomyces cerevisiae TL at individual-residue resolution, we quantitatively phenotyped nearly all TL single variants en masse. Three mutant classes, revealed by phenotypes linked to transcription defects or various stresses, have distinct distributions among TL residues. We find that mutations disrupting an intra-TL hydrophobic pocket, proposed to provide a mechanism for substrate-triggered TL folding through destabilization of a catalytically inactive TL state, confer phenotype consistent with pocket disruption. Furthermore, allele-specific genetic interactions among the TL and TL-proximal domain residues support the contribution of the funnel and bridge helices ( BH ) to TL dynamics. Our structural genetics approach incorporates structural and phenotype data for high-resolution dissection of transcription mechanisms and their evolution, is readily applicable to other essential yeast proteins.
The majority of rabies virus ( RV ) infections are caused by bites or scratches from rabid carnivores or bats. Usually, RV utilizes the retrograde transport within the neuronal network to spread from the infection site to the central nervous system ( CNS ) where it replicates in neuronal somata and infects other neurons via trans-synaptic spread. However, it is unknown whether hematogenous spread has any relevance in RV pathogenesis. In order to determine whether certain RV variants might have the capacity to invade the CNS, we infected mice either intramuscularly or intravenously ( i. m. ) with the dog-associated RV DOG4 or the silver-haired bat-infected RV SB. We used immunohistochemistry and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( qRT-PCR ) to follow the spread of the virus from brain to brain. The earliest affected regions were those hypothalamic nuclei, which are connected by neurosecretory fibers to neurons in the circumventricular organs neurohypophysis and median eminence. Our data suggest that the pathogen of RV can directly enter the brain and that this invasion can lead to a lethal encephalopathy. This alternative mode of virus spread could play a role in post exposure prophylaxis of wild-type RV.
Influenza A viruses of the H1N1 subtype of influenza A virus have caused substantial morbidity and mortality in humans, first documented in 1918 and continuing to the present day. Despite this disease burden, the evolutionary history of this virus is not well understood, particularly whether there is a virological basis for several notable epidemics of unusual severity in the 1940s and 1950s. Using a data set of 71 representative complete genome sequences sampled between 1918–2006, we show that segmental reassortment has played an important role in genomic evolution of A/H1 N1 since 1918. Specifically, our analysis shows that an influenza isolate from the 1947 epidemic acquired novel PB2 and HA genes, which may explain the abrupt antigenic evolution, and that the 1951 influenza epidemic may also have been associated with reassortant influenza viruses. Intra-subtype reassignment therefore appears to be a more important process in both the evolution and epidemiology of virus than previously realized.
Nicotine exerts its reinforcing action by stimulating nicotinic acetylcholine receptors ( nAChRs ) and boosting dopamine ( DA ) output from the ventral tegmental area ( VTA ). Recent data have led to a debate about the principal pathway of nicotine action: direct stimulation of the DA and GABAergic cells, or disinhibition mediated through desensitization on the GABA interneurons. We use a computational model to shed light on this issue. Our model illustrates that the α4β2 receptor-mediated currents either on DA or GABA cells can mediate the acute effects of Nicotine. The model also accounts for in vitro as well as in vivo data, and predicts the conditions necessary for either direct stimulus or inhibition to be at the origin of DA activity increases. Finally, we propose key experiments to disentangle the contribution of both mechanisms.
Anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) due to Leishmania ( L. ) tropica infection is a chronic, frequently disfiguring skin disease with limited therapeutic options. In endemic countries healing of ulcerative lesions is often delayed by bacterial and/or fungal infections. Here, we studied a novel therapeutic concept to prevent superinfections, accelerate wound closure, and improve the cosmetic outcome of ACL. From 2004 to 2008 we performed a two-armed, randomized, double-blinded, phase IIa trial in Kabul, Afghanistan. The skin lesions were treated with bipolar high-frequency electrocauterization ( EC ) followed by daily moist-wound-treatment ( MWT ) with polyacrylate hydrogel with or without sodium chlorite ( DAC N-055 ). Patients below age 5, with facial lesions, pregnancy, or serious comorbidities were excluded. We hypothesized that the treatment of CL as well as preliminary results were first presented during an expert meeting at the Institute Pasteur, Paris, in 2006.
The small GTPase RAS is among the most prevalent oncogenes. The evolutionarily conserved RAF-MEK-MAPK module is one of the main conduits through which this pathway transmits proliferative signals in normal and cancer cells. Genetic and biochemical studies conducted in metazoan models such as Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans have uncovered a small set of factors that control RAF activation, thus suggesting a central regulatory role for this event. However, whether additional factors are required at this level or further downstream remains an open question. Here, we used a genome-wide RNAi screen to systematically search for and categorize new factors involved in signal regulation between RAF and MAPK. Validated hits were submitted to a series of secondary assays aimed at positioning their regulatory input relative to known pathway components. We found that most hits mainly consist of constitutive splicing factors and thereby suggest that splice plays a specific role in establishing MAP kinase levels. In addition to providing a comprehensive view of regulatory factors influencing signal transmission, this work suggests that pathway output does not solely rely on post translational regulatory events, like those controlling RAF or MEK, but is also tightly governed by the expression of core component transcripts.
Cryptococcosis is among the most prevalent life-threatening mycoses, especially in hosts with an impaired immune system such as HIV positive patients. C. neoformans has been known to be the major cause of the infection in immunocompromised hosts, while the immunosuppressed hosts were virtually always affected by this species. The current study aimed to expend the current epidemiological knowledge by including a further 498 clinical, environmental and veterinary isolates of this outbreak strain.
Differences in regulatory networks underlie much of the phenotypic variation observed across organisms. Mutations in transcription factors ( TFs ), on the other hand, can affect the expression of multiple genes and are thought therefore to be more likely to have detrimental consequences. However, examples of regulatory network divergence stemming from TF variation have also been observed. Here, we analyze the evolution of Cys2-His2 zinc finger ( C2H2ZF ) 1-to-1 orthologs across 12 Drosophila species spanning ~45 million years of evolution. We find that a significant fraction of all C1- to-2 orthologic domains in D. melanogaster are conserved across phylogenetic clades and evolve slower than other diverging residues. These same variations were rarely found as polymorphisms within a population of flies, indicating their rapid fixation. The predicted specificities of these dynamic domains gradually change across evolutionary distances, suggesting stepwise evolutionary trajectories for TF divergence.
Serotype-specific PCR assays targeting Salmonella enterica serotypes Typhi and Paratyphi A are required to accelerate formal diagnosis and to overcome the lack of typing sera and, in some situations, the need for culture. In this work, we developed a new family of repeated DNA sequences, CRISPR ( clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats ), as a target for the detection and differentiation of these two major bacterial populations. We demonstrated that the spacer content of a strain was strongly correlated with its serotype, and the presence of unique, constant spacers in certain strains of bacteria frequently encountered in bloodstream infections. The performance and convenience should facilitate the rapid and accurate identification of both the serotyping and antimicrobial drug susceptibility testing in a large range of clinical and public health laboratories with access to PCR technology.
The protective immune response to intracellular parasites involves in most cases the differentiation of IFNγ-secreting CD4+ T helper ( Th ) 1 cells. Notch receptors regulate cell differentiation during development, but their implication in the polarization of peripheral cells is not well understood. In this study, we investigated the role of notch in Th1 cell development following infection with the protozoan parasite Leishmania major. N1N2ΔCD4Cre mice, on the C57BL/6 L. major-resistant genetic background, developed unhealing lesions and uncontrolled parasitemia. Susceptibility correlated with impaired secretion of cytokines by draining lymph node cells and increased secretion by T cells of the IL-5 and IF-13 Th2 cytokine. Mice with single inactivation of either of these receptors were resistant to infection and developed a protective response. Collectively, our data indicate a crucial role for the RBP-Jκ-independent regulator of NotCH signaling.
Parasitic worm infections are the predominant route of HIV transmission in sub-Saharan Africa. However, it is not possible to directly test this hypothesis in humans. We tested the effect of schistosome infection on host susceptibility to immunodeficiency virus infection using rhesus macaques exposed intrarectally to low doses of the recently described R5-tropic clade C simian HIV-1, SHIV-1157ipd3N4. Systemic infection occurred in parasitized monkeys at lower doses than in normal hosts. Coinfected animals also had significantly higher peak viral RNA loads than controls ( P<0. 001 ), as well as increased viral replication in CD4+ central memory cells. Our data provide the first direct evidence that acute schismosomiasis significantly increases the risk of de novo AIDS virus acquisition, and suggests that control of helminth infections may be a useful public health intervention to help decrease the spread of AIDS.
Acetylcholine ( ACh ) is a neurotransmitter that modulates neural excitability and one of the neurochemical substrates of sleep. Amongst the cellular effects induced by cholinergic modulation are a reduction in spike-frequency adaptation ( SFA ) and a shift in the phase response curve ( PRC ). We demonstrate in a biophysical model how changes in neural activity and network structure interact to form three distinct functional regimes: localized asynchronous, traveling asynchronous and traveling synchronous. Our results qualitatively match those observed experimentally. Cortical activity during slow wave sleep ( SWS ) differs from that during REM sleep or waking states. During slowwave sleep there are traveling patterns of activity, but in other states stationary patterns occur. When the magnitude of this current recreates the reduction of spike frequency adaptation, the shift from a type 2 to a 1PRC observed in response to the presence of a high amplitude current. These regimes may have a profound functional significance as stationary patternes may play a role in encoding external input as memory and travel waves could lead to synaptic regularization.
Esophageal adenocarcinoma ( EAC ) develops in an inflammatory microenvironment with reduced microbial diversity, but mechanisms for these influences remain poorly characterized. We hypothesized that somatic mutations may collectively target the Toll-like receptor ( TLR ) pathway, which is involved in downstream signaling and interaction with the adaptor molecule MyD88, and may play a role in disease pathogenesis in a subset of patients. Using whole genome sequencing data from 171 patients with clinical outcome data, we found that non-synonymous mutations collectively affect the TIR pathway in 25/171 ( 14. 6%, PathScan p = 8. 7x10-5 ) tumors and in other solid tumor types exposed to microbiomes in the COSMIC database ( 10, 318 samples ), including uterine endometrioid carcinoma, cutaneous melanoma and melanomas, colorectal cancer ( 377/988, 38. 2% ) ( 402/1519, 26. 5% ( 151/579, 25. 1% of the sample ) and stomach cancer, respectively. The TLRs4 mutants E439G, S570I, F703C and R787H were confirmed to have impaired reactivity to bacterial lipopolysaccharide with marked reductions in signaling by luciferase reporter assays. Overall, our findings show that TL-R pathway genes are recurrently mutated in this type of cancer.
The sense of taste is of critical importance to animal survival. Although studies have provided detailed information regarding taste receptor calcium signaling molecules ( TRCSMs, required for sweet/bitter/umami taste signal transduction ), the ontogeny of the taste cells is still largely unknown. We used a novel approach to investigate the molecular regulation of cell differentiation in mice by combining in silico and in vivo analyses. Our computational analysis revealed that the expression of nuclear HES1 correlated with type II taste cell markers. After stage E18, Hes1−/− mutants displayed over 5-fold more cells in the developing circumvallate papillae ( CVP ) than did their wild-type littermates. Thus, according to our composite analyses, a common regulatory factor is likely to play a role in orchestrating the cell type differentiation process in developing taste buds.
Rice is an important monocotyledonous crop worldwide; it differs from Arabidopsis in many aspects. Ethylene and auxin act synergistically to regulate root growth and development. However, their interaction in rice is still unclear. In this study, we report that the transcriptional activation of OsEIL1 on the expression of YUC8/REIN7 and indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) -dependent Auxin biosynthesis is required for ethylene-inhibited root elongation. By screening phenotypes of seedling primary root from mutagenesis libraries following the conversion of IPA to IAA in plant seedlings, our findings reveal a model of interaction between ethyl-glycine signaling and rice root development, enhancing our understanding of the role of ethylethylene signaling.
Non-tuberculous mycobacteria causing pulmonary and extrapulmonary diseases are reportedly increasing globally and the current epidemiologic situation in Saudi Arabia remains unclear. To study such trend, we carried out a nationwide systematic epidemiological study focusing on NTM diseases for the first time in the country. A total of 527 isolates were enrolled with a higher proportion of Saudi citizens ( 76. 5% ), elderly ( >60 years ) patients, 34. 2% and male gender ( 65. 3% respectively. Overall, 75. 1% of the patients were pulmonary origin with the proven clinical significance of 44. 7%. The laboratory findings showed a clear statistical association of patients in age groups 16–29, 30–45 ( p-value, 0. 02 ) and 30-45 years. Interestingly, 27 new cases of clinically relevant M. riyadhense were also noticed. Diabetes mellitus and previous history of tuberculosis disease ( P value-0. 04 ) were identified as independent risk factors associated with N TM diseases. Therefore, more priorities will be given to the development of diagnostic infrastructures and disease management plans.
During starvation for glucose or any other macronutrient, yeast cells exit from the mitotic cell cycle and acquire a set of characteristics that are specific to quiescent cells to ensure longevity. Little is known about the molecular determinants that orchestrate entry and lifespan extension in yeast. Using starvation-specific gene reporters, we screened a subset of the yeast deletion library representing the genes encoding ‘signaling’ proteins. Apart from Rim15, Mck1 and Yak1 kinases, the SNF1/AMPK complex and a number of cell wall integrity regulators were shown to be necessary for proper establishment and for extension of chronological lifespan ( CLS ). The CLS of these signaling mutants correlates well with the amount of storage carbohydrates but poorly with transition-phase status. Combined removal of glycogen and trehalose biosynthetic genes, especially GSY2 and TPS1, nearly abolishes the accumulation of stored carbohydrates and severely reduces CLS, suggesting that metabolic reprogramming to increase energy stores and the activation of anti-oxidant defence systems are the primary objectives of this signaling network at a time of nutrient scarcity.
Rapid antigenic evolution enables the persistence of seasonal influenza A and B viruses in human populations despite widespread herd immunity. Understanding viral mechanisms that enable viral evolution is critical for designing durable vaccines and therapeutics. Here, we use the primerID method of error-correcting viral population sequencing to reveal an unexpected role for hemagglutinin ( HA ) glycosylation in compensating for fitness defects resulting from escape from anti-HA neutralizing antibodies. Antibody-free propagation following virus escape rapidly selected viruses with mutations that modulated HA receptor binding avidity through the addition of N-linked glycans to the HA globular domain. These findings expand our understanding of the viral mechanism that maintain fitness during virus evolution to include glycan addition, and highlight the immense power of high-definition virus population genome sequencing.
Prolongation of the ventricular action potential ( APD ), the action of class III antiarrhythmic drugs, is a problematic property of these drugs. Reverse rate dependent ( reverse rate dependence ) is the phenomenon that drugs will prolong the AP to a greater extent at slow heart rates than at fast. This is doubly problematic, as it not only weakens the ability of drugs to suppress re-entry of excitation that underlies many arrhythmias, but also increases the risk of sudden cardiac death in both congenital and acquired long QT syndromes. Here, we have performed a comprehensive analysis of myocytes with varying properties and analyzing population results statistically. We simultaneously predicted the rate-dependent effects of changes in multiple model parameters. A comparison of predictions across models identified inward rectifier potassium current and the sodium-potassium pump as the two targets most likely to produce FRD AP prolongation. The analysis identified a variety of ionic current perturbations, and generated specific predictions regarding their mechanisms. For instance, an increase in L-type calcium current is increased when this is accompanied by indirect, rate–dependent change in slow delayed rectification sodium current. Our results provide new insights, both specific and general, into the determinants of AP duration rate dependency.
Phenome-Wide Association Studies ( PheWAS ) investigate whether genetic polymorphisms associated with a phenotype are also related with other diagnoses. In this study, we have developed new methods to perform a ICD-10 analysis based on the diagnosis codes and biological test results, and to use a quantitative trait as the selection criterion. We applied these methods in patients having a TPMT activity assessment from the clinical data warehouse of a French academic hospital between January 2000 and July 2013. Data after initiation of thiopurine treatment were analyzed and patient groups were compared according to their activity level. A total of 442 patient records and 72, 711 biological tests were also analyzed using discretization algorithms. The results from these data were concordant. Cross-validation with the biological results allowed us to validate the phenotypes. Iron-deficiency anemia and diabetes mellitus were associated in the vhTPMTa group compared to other patients. This study highlighted a potential association between very high activity and signs that could result from a sustained steroid therapy secondary to a failure of the drug in IBD patients, which could reflect more active disease in this group.
Stem cells, from which all tissues can be generated, offer the potential to reconstitute tissues damaged by injury and disease. However, realising this potential will demand a detailed knowledge of the genetic and internal environmental cues that specify a cell's type, location, and interaction with its neighbours. In patients, lineage-specific stem cells have been reported to show efficacy in the regeneration of craniofacial bones and of damaged cornea. Stem cell transplantation was pioneered in 1950s using haematopoietic stem cell transplants to repopulate the bone marrow in patients with cancer. As understanding of stem-cell biology has increased, so too has the ambition for restoring more complex tissues.
Soil-transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections ( i. e., Ascaris lumbricoides, hookworm, and Trichuris trichiura ) affect more than a billion people, particularly the rural poor of the developing world. Preventive chemotherapy is the mainstay of control. This strategy, however, does not prevent reinfection. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess patterns and dynamics of infection after drug treatment. Our protocol is available on PROSPERO, registration number: CRD42011001678. From 154 studies identified, 51 were included and 24 provided infection rates pre- and posttreatment, whereas 42 reported determinants of predisposition to reininfection were positively correlated with pretreatment infection status. Prevalence and intensity of re-acquired prevalence reached 26% ( 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 16–43% ), 68%, 69% and 94% respectively, respectively. In T. trichura, respective infection prevalence were 36% to 47% in 3, 6, 12 months after treatment, while for hookworms, 30% was 26–34%. The intensity and frequency of reinffections were also positively associated with the severity of prettreatment infection. Hence, there is a need for frequent anthelmintic drug administrations to maximize the benefit of preventive chemotherapy. Integrated control approaches emphasizing health education and environmental sanitation are needed to interrupt transmission of ST H.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) is associated with metabolic syndromes spanning a wide spectrum of diseases. To identify the deregulation that occurs in metabolic processes at the molecular level that give rise to these various NA FLD phenotypes, algorithms such as pathway enrichment analysis ( PEA ) can be used to identify deregulated minimal networks ( MiNs ), which are reactions pertaining to various metabolic subsystems that can synthesize a target metabolite. Unfortunately, the annotation of the pathways used can differ depending on the pathway database used, making these approaches subject to different pathway annotations, and these methods cannot capture the balancing of cofactors and byproducts through the complex nature and interactions of genome-scale metabolic networks. In this study, we introduce a framework entitled Minimum Network Enrichment Analysis, MiNEA, that is applied to GEMs to generate all possible alternative minimal network networks that are possible and feasible networks composed of all the reactions related to the metabolism of various metabolites. We found that key regulators in the hydrogen peroxide synthesis network were regulated differently in humans and mice, but we further identified which miNs demonstrate the general and specific characteristics of different metabolic phenotypic traits. Our framework is flexible enough to study condition-specific metabolism for any given disease or organism.
The olfactory system identifies and discriminates odors for solving vital tasks like navigating the environment, identifying food, and engaging in social interactions. These tasks are complicated by the enormous variety of odor types, which vary in composition and in the concentrations of their individual molecules. Primacy coding, where the odor identity is encoded by receptor types that respond earliest, might provide a compact and informative representation that can be interpreted efficiently by brain. In this paper, we analyze the information transmitted by a simple model of primacy encoding using numerical simulations and statistical descriptions. We show that the encoded information depends strongly on the size of the receptor array. The representation is independent of odor intensity and the transmitted information is useful to perform typical olactory tasks with close to experimentally measured performance. Interestingly, the model also suggests that overly sensitive receptors could dominate the entire response and make the whole array useless. This allows us to predict how receptor arrays need to adapt to stay useful during environmental changes.
The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein ( Env ) spike, the sole target of broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( bnMAbs ), is a heterotrimer of composition ( gp120 ) 3 that includes about 25 N-linked glycans on the C-terminal half of the ectodomain. The gp41 protein typically includes four conserved G-protein complexes that comprise almost 50% of its mass. In this study, we were interested in determining the extent of non-sigmoidal slopes and plateaus at <100% for HIV antibodies more generally. Using both a 278 panel of pseudoviruses in a CD4 T-cell ( U87, CCR5. CXCR4 ) assay and a cell line-grown molecular virus clone panel derived from patient viral swarms in both cell lines and primary cells with implications for the use of antibodies in therapy and as tools for vaccine design.
Cancer cells share several metabolic traits, including aerobic production of lactate from glucose ( Warburg effect ), extensive glutamine utilization and impaired mitochondrial electron flow. It is still unclear how these metabolic rearrangements, which may involve different molecular events in different cells, contribute to a selective advantage for cancer cell proliferation. In order to integrate sets of experimental data and to formulate new testable hypotheses, complex biological systems–such as human metabolism that involves thousands of metabolites and reactions—need to be formally described by mathematical models. We manually reconstructed a core stoichiometric model designed to evaluate the contribution of glucose and glutamines to enhanced growth, hence the name ENGRO1 ( ENhanced GROwth ). By exploring the space of admissible wirings, we newly identified and rationalized intense aerobic glycolysis and glucose reductive carboxylation as the fittest emergent strategy that supports tumorigenic growth. Under the latter conditions, standard Flux Balance Analysis indicated that: this metabolic pattern is optimal to maximize biomass and ATP production; it requires the activity of a branched TCA cycle, in which oxidative metabolism cooperates to produce lipids and proteins; and it is sustained by a variety of redox-controlled metabolic reactions.
Prions are the causative agents of a range of rare but invariably fatal neurodegenerative diseases in humans and other mammals. In disease, the cellular prion protein ( PrPC ) converts to a disease-associated conformer with different physicochemical properties. Whereas significant progress has been made in the past few years in defining the minimal requirements for the conformational conversion of this protein in vitro, its molecular environment remains enigmatic. To facilitate recognition of relevant interactors, a quantitative investigation of the interactionome was conducted in a cell culture model of neuroblastoma cells. Interestingly, this work not only established a similar physiological environment for all three prions in this cell model system, but also suggested direct interactions amongst them. Furthermore, multiple interactions between prPC and the neural cell adhesion molecule, laminin receptor precursor, Na/K ATPases and protein disulfide isomerases ( PDI ) were confirmed, thereby reconciling previously separate findings. Subsequent validation experiments established that interactions of PrP with PDIs may extend beyond the endoplasmic reticulum and may play a hitherto unrecognized role. A simple hypothesis is presented which accounts for a majority of interactions observed in uninfected cells and suggests a scenario whereby the protein organizes its environment on account of its ability to recognize a specialized subset of membrane proteins carrying high-mannose glycans.
Influenza A virus ( IAV ) is the causative agent of asthma and allergic diseases such as asthma. IL-5 is one of the major type 2 cytokines that is essential for eosinophil survival ( in humans ) as well as B1-B cell development in mice. However, the production of this cytokine during respiratory virus infection has been linked to asthma exacerbation; however, it has not been shown to be tissue protective. Using a mouse model of influenza infection, we found a robust transient release of interleukin ( IL ) -5 into the airways along with a significant and progressive accumulation of IL in the lungs, particularly during the recovery phase of infection. We further demonstrate that the enhanced capacity for IL production by ILC2 during recovery is concomitant with the increased expression of a receptor subunit, ST2, by the IL2. Lastly, our results reveal that NKT cells and alveolar macrophages ( AM ), which are endogenous sources of myeloid lineage inflammatory cells infiltrating the infected lungs. Collectively, these results show that c-kit+ IL+2 interaction with IL and AM leads to abundant production and EOSINophilia, and accounts for the accumulation observed during influenza virus recovery. The significance of these findings is discussed.
Invasive non-typhoidal Salmonella ( iNTS ) infections are now a well-described cause of morbidity and mortality in children and HIV-infected adults in sub-Saharan Africa. However, the epidemiology and clinical manifestations are not well documented. In this study, we retrospectively identified >100 cases of iNsTS infections in an infectious disease hospital in Southern Vietnam between 2008 and 2013. Clinical records were accessed to evaluate the clinical symptoms, disease outcome, patient demographics and the infecting serovars. Multi-locus sequence typing and antimicrobial susceptibility testing was performed on all organisms. Of 102 patients, 71% of the patients were HIV infected, >90% were adults, 1/8 were male and 33% reported intravenous drug use. Twenty-six/92 ( 28% ) patients with a known outcome died; HIV infection was significantly associated with death ( p = 0. 039 ). S. Enteritidis ( Sequence Types ( ST ) 11 ) ( 48%, 43/89 ) and S. Typhimurium ( St19, 34 and 1544 ) were the most commonly identified, respectively. Infection was a risk factor for death, with the majority of burden in this population found in male men.
Phages play critical roles in the survival and pathogenicity of their hosts, via lysogenic conversion factors, and in nutrient redistribution via cell lysis. Analyses of phage- and viral-encoded genes in environmental samples provide insights into the physiological impact of viruses on microbial communities and human health. Phage ORFs are extremely diverse of which over 70% of them are dissimilar to any genes with annotated functions in GenBank. Better identification of viral structural proteins would also aid in better detection and diagnosis of disease, in vaccine development, as well as the development of new pathogens.
Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) is one of the few oncogenic human viruses known to date. Its large dsDNA genome encodes more than 85 proteins and includes both unique viral proteins as well as proteins conserved amongst herpesviruses. In this study, we characterized all three isoforms of ORF20 and show that they localize to the nuclei and nucleoli of transiently transfected or transduced cells, including HeLa, 293T, primary HFF, HuARLT2, and Hu. 219. OASL is an interferon-stimulated gene product ( ISG ) with antiviral activity, but its role in the viral life cycle is not well understood. We identified several specific interacting partners of TSHv and found that both the endogenous and transient-expressing proteins copurified with 40S and 60S ribosomal subunits and when they were co-expressed, they associated with polysomes. Furthermore, when expressed together they associate with RIG-I in an IRF3-dependent but IFNAR-independent manner. Our data have characterized the interaction of transcriptional repressor methyl CpG binding protein 1 ( MBD1 ) as an important viral protein and suggest that the function of these proteins is to enhance the replication of certain viruses.
Convulsions with fever in children are a common neurologic emergency in the tropics, and determining the contribution of endemic viral infections can be challenging. In particular, there is a dearth of data on the prevalence and clinical differentiation of Lassa virus disease ( LVD ) in febrile children in endemic areas of Nigeria, which has multiple lineages of the virus. The aim of this study was to determine the presence of a positive diagnostic test and to compare the clinical manifestations of fever with that of other common fever and CAWF. This was a prospective case-control study of children aged ≥1 month– 15 years admitted to the Children’s Emergency Room of Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital over a period of 1 year. We found that the overall prevalence was 13/373 ( 3. 5%; 95% CI = 1. 9%, 5. 7% ), 3/108 ( 2. 8% in Cases and 10/265 in Controls ). However, it was not significantly associated with a fever. Our findings indicate that undifferentiated fever could be an important public health emergency, but it is not a significant contributor to fever, suggesting the need for a high index of suspicion in diagnosis.
Water deficit is a major constraint to crop productivity worldwide. As water resources are increasingly challenged by climate change and the demands of a growing human population, improvement of water use efficiency and development of drought-resistant crops will be critical innovations for agriculture. Intensive efforts have been made toward discovering the hormones and genetic networks that control drought adaptation in plants, with the goal of developing chemical or genetic tools to manipulate drought resistance in the field. Karrikins ( KARs ) are a class of butenolide compounds found in smoke that promote seed germination, and have recently been reported to improve seedling vigor under stressful growth conditions. Here, we discovered that mutations in kARRIKIN INSENSITIVE2, encoding the proposed karrikin receptor, result in hypersensitivity to water deprivation. We performed transcriptomic, physiological and biochemical analyses of kai2 plants to understand the basis for KAI2-regulated drought tolerance in Arabidopsis thaliana. These data provide evidence for crosstalk between ABA-dependent signaling pathways in regulating plant responses to drought. A comparison of the strigolactone receptor mutant d14 ( DWARF14 ) to kakari2 indicated that D14 contributes to plant adaptation, although not by affecting cuticle development. Our findings suggest that chemical control of KARI2 signaling may provide novel ways to increase crop performance.
Schistosomiasis is a major public health problem in many developing countries in the tropics and sub-tropics where it affects 200 million people, and is directly or indirectly responsible for many thousand deaths annually. The currently available evidence thus emphasises the relevance of developing a transmission blocking veterinary vaccine for use in bovines to reduce S. japonicum infection ( or reinfection ) and to decrease the force of transmission by interrupting female worm egg production.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a leading cause of disability in South Pacific regions, where >96% of the 1. 7 million population are at risk of LF infection. As part of current global campaign, mass drug administration ( MDA ) has effectively reduced LF transmission, but mosquito vector biology can complicate the strategy. Here, we demonstrate that Aedes polynesiensis, the primary vector for LF, is genetically incompatible with naturally infected mosquitoes, resulting in female sterility. The results demonstrate strategy feasibility and encourage field tests for the vector elimination strategy as a supplement to ongoing disease control efforts.
Human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is a severely neglected vector-borne disease that is always fatal if untreated. In Tanzania it is highly focalised and of major socio-economic and public health importance in affected communities. Accurate estimates of incidence and effective control of this disease depend on active surveillance which is expensive and requires a high level of organization. The direct medical and other indirect costs incurred by individual patients and by the health services were calculated. DALYs were estimated using methods recommended by Global Burden of Disease Project as well as those used in previous rhodesiense estimates. When 45% under-reporting was included, the results were 622. 5 and 978. 9 ( 95% CI: 201. 1–1870. 8 ) respectively. This study highlights the urgent need for location-specific burden estimates tailored to particular rural settings in countries like Tanzania where a considerable number of infectious diseases are prevalent and, due to their focal nature, are often concentrated in certain locations where they impose an especially high burden.
The cytoplasmic peptide:N-glycanase ( Ngly1 in mammals ) is an enzyme that is highly conserved among eukaryotes. It was recently reported that subjects harboring mutations in the NGLY1 gene exhibited severe systemic symptoms. While the enzyme obviously has a critical role in mammalian development, its precise function remains unclear. In this study, we analyzed the phenotypes of mice that are embryonic lethal in C57BL/6 background. Surprisingly, the additional deletion of the gene encoding endo-β-Nacetylglucosaminidase, which leaves a single GlcNAc at glycosylated Asn residues, was partially rescued by crossing the mice with an outbred mouse strain ( ICR mixed background ). The defects observed in mice lacking the Engase gene, however, were very severe compared to the symptoms of patients with a similar disease. These observations strongly suggest that a mouse model could serve as a valuable animal model to study the pathogenesis of this genetic disorder.
One of the fundamental questions in biology is how embryos develop reproducibly, and it has many aspects. At a broad level, one can ask what the degree to which parameters controlling developmental patterning can vary before major disruptions occur. In recent years, a number of studies have made quantitative comparisons of developmental patterns between embryos in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, aided by its very well characterized molecular biology. For instance, there has been a recent focus on spatial precision of Bicoid protein ( Bcd ), which forms an anterior-posterior ( AP ) concentration gradient. Here, we have used a stochastic model of gene expression to investigate how noise is controlled in a population of embryos. The results indicate that noise generation is predominantly dependent on the transcription and translation dynamics of its own expression, rather than on binding cooperativity or self-feedback. We also show that the multiple binding sites in Hb promoter ( and their strengths ) also play a role in buffering noise. This study identifies particular ways in which promoter structure and regulatory dynamics reduce hb output noise, in order to produce output determinate enough for robust development.
Neanderthals, along with Denisovans, were a sister group to modern humans. After hybridization, on average, selection appears to have removed Neanderthal alleles from the human population. Quantifying the strength and causes of this selection, and, more broadly, how populations remain distinct after secondary contact, is key to understanding our relationship to Neanderths. Here, we develop a novel method for estimating the genome-wide average strength of selection and the density of selected sites. We find that East Asians had somewhat higher initial levels of Neanderththal ancestry than Europeans even after accounting for selection. This work suggests that differences in effective population size may play a far more important role in shaping the level of introgression than previously thought.
HIV-1 can establish rare, latent infections in cells, and the resulting viral reservoirs represent the most significant barrier to elimination of virus from a patient since they persist for decades and can reactivate at any time. After HIV enters a cell, it integrates its genetic material into the host genome and utilizes host cell transcriptional machinery to regulate its gene expression. In a significant fraction of cells harboring an integrated copy of the model provirus ( LTR-GFP-IRES-Tat ), this bimodal expression profile is dynamic, as cells spontaneously and continuously flip between active ( Bright ) and inactive ( Off ) expression modes. Furthermore, these switching dynamics may contribute to the establishment and maintenance of proviral latency. Using model lentivirus variants with mutations introduced in the Sp1 and NF-κB elements, we employed flow cytometry, mRNA quantification, pharmacological perturbations, chromatin immunoprecipitation to reveal significant functional differences in contributions of each site to viral gene regulation. Specifically, the SP1 sites apparently stabilize both the Bright and Off states, such that their mutation promotes noisy expression and reduction in regulation of histone acetylation and deacetylations. Moreover, they functionally “dampen” transcriptionally noise and thereby modulate the frequency and duration of this model of viral latency, which may have biomedical implications for the treatment of HIV latency and other diseases.
Accurate genome-wide identification of orthologs is a central problem in comparative genomics, a fact reflected by the numerous orthology identification projects developed in recent years. However, only a few reports have compared their accuracy, and indeed, several recent efforts have not yet been systematically evaluated. In this study, we collected and mapped the results of nine leading orthological projects and methods ( COG, KOG, Inparanoid, OrthoMCL, Ensembl Compara, Homologene, RoundUp, EggNOG and OMA ) and compared them with their predictions with respect to both phylogeny and function, using six different tests. This required the mapping of millions of sequences, the handling of hundreds of million of predicted pairs of genes, or the computation of tens of thousands of trees. Our results show that the more sophisticated tree reconstruction/reconciliation approach, which has by definition the same topology as the corresponding species tree, performs best. At lower functional specificity but higher coverage level, in-paralogs perform best, even in phylogenetic tests, but the method is not specific enough to build broad functional grouping. Furthermore, standard bidirectional best-hit often outperforms projects with more complex algorithms.
Schistosomiasis is an acute and chronic disease caused by parasitic worms of the genus Schistomosoma. It is widespread in the tropics and sub-tropics, with more than 200 million people affected worldwide and an estimated 800 million at risk. The commercial incentives to develop new drugs are weak due to the emergence of resistance. This is particularly pertinent for parasitic infections of low and middle income countries, referred to collectively as neglected tropical diseases, where drug-resistance is emerging. To meet the challenge of developing new therapeutics against this disease, we developed an innovative computational drug repurposing pipeline supported by phenotypic screening. Using this approach highlighted several protein kinases as interesting new biological targets for the disease as they play an essential role in many parasite’s biological processes. Focusing on this target class we also report the first elucidation of a kinome of S. japonicum, as well as updated kinomes of both the two major infective species of humans. These include previously suggested drugs such as bosutinib and dasatinib, and new inhibitors that might inhibit them.
Transcription factors are essential players in signal transduction by regulating gene expression in response to changes in the cellular environment. An increasingly recognized phenomenon among human transcription factors is the formation of structure upon target binding. Here, we study the folding and binding of the pKID domain of CREB to the co-activator CBP. Our simulations predict a coupled folding-and binding mechanism, and the existence of partially bound intermediates. From transition-path and Φ-value analyses we find that the binding transition state resembles the unstructured state in solution and contrasts with models in which binding occurs only after committing to binding, suggesting a “fly-casting”-like process.
Schistosomiasis is an infection caused by intestinal and urinary blood fluke parasites. The infection can cause anemia, stunted growth, impaired cognition, decreased physical fitness, intestinal fibrosis veins, hepatosplenomegaly, neurological complications and death. Subsequently, this disease has a socioeconomic impact on the populations affected.
Heterosexual transmission of HIV-1 is characterized by a genetic bottleneck that selects a single viral variant, the transmitted/founder ( TF ), during most transmission events. To assess viral characteristics influencing transmission, we sequenced 167 near full-length viral genomes and generated 40 infectious molecular clones ( IMC ) including TF variants and multiple non-transmitted ( NT ) variants from six linked heterosexual transmission pairs near the time of transmission. Consensus-like genomes sensitive to donor antibodies were selected for during transmission in these six transmissions pairs. However, TF variant variants did not demonstrate increased viral fitness in terms of particle infectivity or viral replicative capacity in activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMC ) and monocyte-derived dendritic cells. In addition, resistance to interferon-α was not significantly different from that of the transmitting partner’s NT variants. Thus, our findings support the hypothesis that within-host evolution in response to adaptive immune responses reduces viral transmission potential.
The filarial nematodes Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia malayi are the causative agents of lymphedema and elephantiasis, respectively. It is known, however, that individuals carrying adult worms ( with or without microfilaremia ) may have lymphangiectasia and aberrant lymph flow, a process that could be reversed by removing or killing the worms. In the absence of an adaptive immune system in murine models, lymphatic dilatation and dysfunction occur in filaria-infected individuals. Here, we examined the role of the parasites and their antigens in modulating the proliferation and/or differentiation of LEC in vitro. We found that the parasite-encoded proteins altered the expression of a number of genes involved in cellular organization and development as well as those associated with junction adherence pathways that in turn decreased trans-endothelial transport as assessed by FITC-Dextran. These data suggest that filial parasites directly influence the lymphatics and provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the pathology seen in the filariasis.
Since only a small fraction of environmental bacteria are amenable to laboratory culture, there is great interest in genomic sequencing directly from single cells. Sufficient DNA for sequencing can be obtained from one cell by the Multiple Displacement Amplification ( MDA ) method, thereby eliminating the need to develop culture methods. Here, we used a microfluidic device to isolate individual Escherichia coli genomes and amplify genomic DNA by a single cell in 60-nl reactions. We show by means of a direct comparison that amplification bias is reduced and specific amplification is increased as the reaction volume shrinks from microliters to nanoliters. The quality of the genome amplification was assessed by qPCR and compared favourably to single-cell amplifications performed in standard 50-μl volumes. Amplifier bias was greatly reduced in nanoliter volumes, thus providing a more even representation of all sequences. This study demonstrates a straightforward route to sequencing genomes from individual cells by high-throughput pyrosequencing.
Several viruses from the genus Orthohantavirus are known to cause lethal disease in humans. Sigmodontinae rodents are the main hosts responsible for the transmission of these viruses in the tropical forests, savannas, and wetlands of South America. These rodents can shed different viruses, such as the lethal and emerging Araraquara orthohandaviruses. Factors that drive variation in host populations may influence the proportion of hosts in rodent communities. Here, we tested this using 283 Atlantic Forest rodent capture records and geographically weighted models that allow us to test if predictors vary spatially. We also assessed the correspondence between proportions of rodent hosts and a human vulnerability to infection index across the entire biome. Our findings suggest there may be more complex rodent community dynamics and interactions with human disease than currently hypothesized.
The family Flaviviridae includes the Japanese encephalitis virus, Dengue virus ( DENV ), West Nile virus and Zika virus. Infection with flavivirus-infected cells induces apoptosis in cells by the production of reactive oxidative species, unfolded protein responses, and viral proteins, in addition to other types of cell death, such as necrosis and pyroptosis. B-cell lymphoma-2 ( BCL2 ) family proteins play central roles in mitochondria-mediated apoptotic to remove excess cells during development, as well as during routine homeostasis. In this study, we examined the roles of BH3-only proteins and BAX/BAK proteins in the induction of death of cells upon virus infection. We showed that the survival of the infected cells depends on the expression of another pro-survival protein, MCL1, which is suppressed by inhibition of this protein. Our results suggest that B CLXL plays a crucial role in host protein synthesis, thereby suppressing viral dissemination and chemokine production.
Canine rabies is an economically unique zoonosis, as most of its associated costs do not result from illness in the infected individual, but rather are the consequences of human deaths and efforts to prevent the disease in humans, livestock, and companion animals, both of which are beyond the scope of this manuscript. This study estimated the economic burden of canine rabie in Viet Nam over a ten year period ( 2005–2014 ). The largest portion of the impacts ( 92% ) were made up of PEP-related costs, measured in years of life lost and disability adjusted life years ( DALYs ), which is lower than the reported level for Asian countries.
The Type II Secretion System ( T2SS ) is a molecular machine that drives the secretion of fully-folded protein substrates across the bacterial outer membrane. A key element in the machinery is the secretin: an integral membrane protein that assembles to form multimeric secretion channels. We have determined the crystal structure of the novel pilotin AspS from Vibrio cholerae, demonstrating convergent evolution wherein the Pilotin is functionally equivalent and yet structurally unrelated to the pilotins found in Klebsiella and other bacteria. Our analysis of two of these, which have acquired the VIBrio-type secretins, showed them to be further distinguished by the pilin that mediates their transport and assembly into the outer membranes.
Pathogenic Leptospira spp. shed in the urine of reservoir hosts into freshwater can be transmitted to a susceptible host through skin abrasions or mucous membranes. The infection process involves the ability of leptires to adhere to cell surface and extracellular matrix components, a crucial step for dissemination and colonization of host tissues. Therefore, the elucidation of novel mediators of the host-pathogen interaction is important for the discovery of virulence factors. In this study, we assess the functional roles of transmembrane outer membrane proteins OmpL36 ( LIC13166, LIC12263, and LIC13050 ), which we recently identified on the surface. We determine the capacity of these proteins to bind to host tissue components by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. These proteins bind elastin preferentially, exhibiting dose-dependent, saturating binding to human skin ( Kd, 104±19 nM ) and aortic, collagen-, laminin, fibrinogen fragment D, along with plasma fibronectin and murine laminain. Further, our data demonstrate that OMPL37 is recognized by acute and convalescent patients and also by patients suffering from lepticospirosis. Finally, this novel protein is detected only in saprophytic patients.
A few broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies, isolated from HIV-1 infected individuals, recognize epitopes in the membrane proximal external region ( MPER ) of gp41 that are transiently exposed during viral entry. The best characterized, 4E10 and 2F5, are polyreactive, binding to the viral membrane and their epitope in this region. We present a model to calculate, as a function of the serum antibody concentration, the probability that during the pre-hairpin intermediate ( the transient period when the cells are first exposed ), a bound antibody will disable a trivalent antibody before fusion is complete. A conformational change is induced that results in a stably bound complex. Our model predicts that for these antibodies to be effective at neutralization, it must be shorter than the time the antibody remains bound to this conformation, about five minutes or less, than for the Fab fragment.
Mass treatment with ivermectin effectively controls onchocerciasis as a public health problem, but it was not known if it could also interrupt transmission and eliminate the parasite in endemic foci in Africa where vectors are highly efficient. A longitudinal study was undertaken in three hyperendemic areas in Mali and Senegal in order to assess residual levels of infection and transmission, and test whether treatment could be safely stopped. This article reports the results of the final evaluations up to 5 years after the last treatment. Skin snip surveys were carried out in 131 villages where 29, 753 people were examined and 492, 600 blackflies were analyzed for the presence of Oncerca volvulus larva using a specific DNA probe. In two sites the prevalence of microfilaria and vector infectivity rate were zero 3 to 4 years, while in the third site, where infection levels were comparatively high before stopping treatment, there was also a consistent decline in transmission to very low levels. All transmission indicators were below postulated thresholds for elimination.
Human rhinovirus ( HRV ) is a small non-enveloped RNA virus of the picornavirus family, which includes many other significant pathogens such as poliovirus and foot-and-mouth disease virus. During cell entry, the small myristoylated capsid protein VP4 is released from the virus, interacts with the cell membrane and is implicated in the delivery of its viral RNA genome into the cytoplasm to initiate replication. In this study, we have produced recombinant C-terminal histidine-tagged human rhabdomyosomal protein and shown it is able to induce membrane permeability in liposome model membranes. Dextran size-exclusion studies, chemical crosslinking and electron microscopy demonstrated that the protein forms a multimeric membrane pore, with a channel size consistent with transfer of a single-stranded viral genome. The membrane-permeable state induced by this protein was comparable to that of infectious virions. These findings present a molecular mechanism for the involvement of VP 4 in virus entry and provide a model system which will facilitate exploration of this virus as a novel antiviral target.
Francisella tularensis ( Ft ) is a Gram-negative bacterium that causes the severe and often fatal disease tularemia in humans. Ft is designated a class A select agent by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Human clinical isolates of Ft produce lipid A of similar structure to Ft subspecies novicida ( Fn ), a pathogen of mice. In this study, we screened transposon-generated Fn mutants for enzymes required for the synthesis of the undecaprenyl-phospho-mannose or galactosamine donor lipid ( PmrF/ArnC ) and addition of aminoarabinose to the lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ). Mutants lacking either mannose ( flmF1 ) ( galactic acid/mantigen ) or both carbohydrates were attenuated in mice by both pulmonary and subcutaneous routes of infection. Bone marrow–derived macrophages ( BMMø ) from Toll-like receptor 4 and TLR2/4 knockout mice infected with the mutant provided protection against a lethal wild-type ( WT ) Fn, whereas myD88−/− mice were also susceptible to this mutant. This study shows attenuation of virulence and the induction of protective immunity by a mutant with altered lipidA.
Ribosomes are macromolecular machines responsible for the synthesis of proteins in all living cells. One such group, the ribosome-associated GTPases ( RA-GTPase ), act as molecular switches, cycling between inactive GDP-bound, and active, effector-binding states. Here we show that the Staphylococcus aureus RA G-protein Era is an essential protein required for 30S subunit maturation. We demonstrate that Era interacts with the 16S rRNA endonuclease YbeY and the DEAD-box RNA helicase CshA. This interaction is impeded by multiple components of the stringent response, contributing to the slowed growth phenotype synonymous with this stress response pathway.
Anthrax lethal toxin ( LT ) induces vascular insufficiency in experimental animals through unknown mechanisms. Nitric oxide synthase ( nNOS ) is one of the most potent modulators of vascular function in vivo and its production by NO synthases is often highly increased during infections. In this study, we show that the increased sensitivity of mice to LT is independent of macrophage sensitivity to toxin, or cytokine responses. Histopathological, electron microscopy and heart biomarker analyses revealed that LT results in rapid and striking pathology in the murine heart, varying only in severity and timing. Endothelial/capillary necrosis and degeneration, inter-myocyte edema, myofilament and mitochondrial degenerations, and altered sarcoplasmic reticulum cisternae were observed in both LT-treated WT mice, indicative of decreased contractile function. Echocardiography showed that cardiac injury ( myoglobin, cardiac troponin-I, heart fatty acid binding protein ) were elevated in LT mice very rapidly ( by 6 h after LT injection ) and reached concentrations rarely reported in mice. Cardiac protective nitrite therapy and allopurinol therapy did not have beneficial effects. Surprisingly, carboxy-PTIO showed some protective effect against LT.
The human-parasitic threadworm Strongyloides stercoralis is a powerful model system for mechanistic studies of parasitic nematode biology. Here, we report the development of a method for introducing CRISPR-Cas9-mediated mutagenesis in the human parasite. We disrupted the C. elegans twitchin gene unc-22, and subsequently isolated mutant worms with uncoordinated ( unc ) phenotypes characterized by decreased motility and sporadic spontaneous twitching, when exposed to an acetylcholine receptor agonist. In the absence of an appropriate repair template we found no evidence for small insertions or deletions ( indels ) at the target sites tested, but instead observed putative deletion of >500 base pairs at a target locus. Our results pave the way for future studies in these medically relevant but previously genetically intractable parasites.
Translational control of gene expression is acknowledged to be a key regulatory control point governing the relationship between mRNA expression levels, and the levels of the encoded polypeptide. The expression of a large number of genes are regulated at the translational level. When cells are under stress conditions, such as amino acid starvation or aminoacyl-tRNA depletion due to a high level of recombinant protein expression, ribosome drop-off can substantially affect the efficiency of protein translation. Here we introduce a mathematical model that describes the effects of premature termination of translation on the rate at which proteins are being produced. Our results show that highly codon biased, rapidly translated mRNAs coding predominantly for proteins involved in translation are highly resilient to the effect. Importantly, the model predicts that the translation rate is mRNA-specific and we quantify their resilience to RNA-wide fluctuations. This study therefore provides insight into the full range of known and non-intuitive interactions along the mRNA.
Soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) remain prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa, Asia and South America. In many settings such a strategy will need to be continued for very extended periods of time, or until social, economic and environmental conditions result in interruption of transmission. As a result, there is currently much discussion surrounding the possibility of accelerating transmission using alternative strategies of mass drug administration. However, the feasibility of achieving transmission interruption using MDA remains uncertain due to challenges in sustaining high coverage levels across entire communities. The DeWorm3 trial, designed to test the viability of interrupting transmission in a population, has been ongoing for three years. This trial compares a control arm ( annual treatment of children alone with mDA ) with an intervention arm with community-wide biannual treatment. Given the fast reinfection ( bounce-back ) rates of infection, a two year no treatment period is regarded as adequate to assess whether bounce back ( transmission is unlikely ) has occurred at early stages of the trial. Mathematical models, fitted to cross-sectional data, predict that these coverages are necessary at earlier timepoints, rather than after two years of subsequent surveillance.
Cholera is a severe dehydrating diarrheal illness of humans caused by organisms Vibrio cholerae O1 or O139 serogroup organisms. The predominant serotype fluctuates between Ogawa and Inaba, with the prevalent serotypes fluctuating during the global pandemic, switching between O-specific polysaccharide ( OSP ). Protection against cholerozoic infections is serogen specific. In this study, we report the evaluation in mice of a conjugate vaccine made from the Osp:TThc and recombinant tetanus toxoid heavy chain fragment. We immunized mice intramuscularly on days 0, 21, and 42 with oSP:OSP only, or with or without dmLT, a non-toxigenic immunoadjuvant derived from heat labile toxin of Escherichia coli. Serum IgG antibody responses were detected following a single immunization in these cohorts. Anti-OSP or anti-LPS IgM and vibriocidal responses ( magnitude and response frequency ) were observed in all vaccine cohorts except in animals receiving either un-conjugated or unconjugation in any group. Administration of the adjuvant also induced memory B cell responses targeting O SP and resulted in 95% protective efficacy in a mouse lethality challenge model.
Bacterial-fungal interactions have important physiologic and medical ramifications, but the mechanisms of these interactions are poorly understood. Using a neutropenic mouse model of microbial gastrointestinal colonization and dissemination, we show that the fungus Candida albicans inhibits the virulence of the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa by inhibiting pyochelin and pyoverdine gene expression, which plays a critical role in iron acquisition. Accordingly, deletion or deletion of both pyocyanin genes attenuates the ability to colonize the GI tract but does decrease P. aeruosa’s cytotoxic effect on cultured colonocytes. Furthermore, oral iron supplementation restores the pathogenic effectors critical for bacterial colonization but not important for colonization. These findings validate the use of a mammalian model system to explore the complexities of polymicrobial, polykingdom infections in order to identify new therapeutic targets for preventing microbial disease.
The high mutation rate of HIV coupled with the strong immune selection pressure exerted by CD8+ T lymphocytes leads to the frequent selection of ‘escape mutant’ ( EM ) virus that abrogates their recognition and killing by T cells. EM virus often has lower replicative capacity than the original wild-type virus, particularly when mutations occur in conserved regions such as Gag. The slow dynamics of escape and reversion in HIV-1 implies lower immune pressure and lower fitness costs of infection. However, it is difficult to completely exclude that these uncloned viral stocks contain quasi-species with mutations at other sites or compensatory mutations ( although no clear pattern of such mutations were seen during intensive cloning and sequencing ).
Mutations beneficial for survival in one environment may impose a cost under other conditions. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood in most natural populations. Here we report that a set of yeast strains collected from Evolution Canyon ( EC ), Israel, exhibit an extremely high tolerance to the heavy metal cadmium. We found that this resistance is primarily caused by an enhanced function of a metal efflux pump, PCA1. Molecular analyses demonstrate that the enhancement can be largely attributed to mutations in the promoter sequence, while the coding region has a minor effect. Reconstruction experiments show that three single nucleotide substitutions increase its activity and thus enhance the cells' resistance. Comparison among different yeast species shows that critical nucleotides found in EC strains are conserved and functionally important for the resistance in other species, suggesting that they represent an ancestral type. Our results provide a rare example of the selective sweep in yeast populations driven by a tradeoff in metal resistance, which has been lost in many populations exposed to known selective pressures.
Gastric cancer ( GC ) is the second leading cause of global cancer mortality. Particularly prevalent in Asia, most GC patients are diagnosed with advanced stage disease. In contrast, experimental evidence indicates that most cancer phenotypes ( uncontrolled growth, resistance to apoptosis, etc ) are largely governed not just by single pathways, but complex interactions between multiple pro- and anti-oncogenic signaling circuits. Narrowing this gap between the clinical and experimental arenas will require strategies capable of measuring and relating activity patterns of multiple cancer-related pathways simultaneously in primary tumors, at a scale not currently achievable by other platforms. We developed an in silico method to map activation levels of different pathways in a panel of complex primary tumor profiles and validated this pathway-directed classification approach using proof-of-concept examples from breast cancer.
Genomic DNA plays a central role in many biological processes, primarily through interactions with proteins and other molecules. Although strictly lexical analysis of genomic DNA sequences has been a focus of contemporary biology, it is becoming increasingly clear that the physical, chemical, and structural properties of the DNA molecule can play key roles in the onset or progression of many regulatory events. Some of these attributes are not directly related to sequence in any simple way. Stress-induced DNA duplex destabilization ( SIDD ) is a complex process in which the behavior of each base pair affects that of every other base pairs experiencing the stress. Because of this interactive character, the sites susceptible to stress can be identified strictly by their local sequence attributes. In this report, we use a computational approach to calculate the SIDsD profile of Escherichia coli K12 genome. We find that strong regions of genes that directly respond to physiological and environmental stimuli are more destabilized than are those regions that do not participate in these responses. Moreover, if a pathway is controlled by a transcriptional regulator whose gene has a destabilizing 5′ flank, then the genes ( operons ) in that pathway also usually contain strongly destabilised SidD sites in their 5’ flanks. These results suggest that these S IDD binding sites are active and necessary participants in superhelically mediated regulatory mechanisms governing changes in global pattern of gene expression in response to biological or environmental changes.
High-mobility-group box ( HMGB ) proteins are eukaryotic DNA-binding proteins that are involved in highly diverse functions ranging from sex determination to extracellular immune signaling. Members of this family are present in plants, fungi and animals. The filamentous ascomycete Podospora anserina contains 12 HMG-box genes. Of these, four have been previously characterized; three are mating-type genes that control fertilization and development of the fruit-body, whereas the last one encodes a transcription factor that regulates mitochondrial DNA stability. Systematic deletion analysis of eight remaining uncharacterized genes indicated that none were essential for viability, but that seven were involved the sexual cycle. PaHMG5, an ortholog of SpSte11 from Schizosaccharomyces pombe, is a pivotal activator of mating type genes and a repressor of several phenomena specific to the stationary phase, most notably hyphal anastomoses. Genetic analyses revealed that this network also controls fertility genes, revealing a commonality of sex regulation in animals and fungi.
The 2013–2016 West African Ebola virus disease epidemic was unprecedented in terms of the number of cases and survivors. Prior to this epidemic there was limited data available on the persistence of Ebola in survivors’ body fluids and the potential risk of transmission, including sexual transmission. A study was designed and implemented during the epidemic response operation in Sierra Leone. This publication describes study implementation methodology and key lessons learned. Challenges encountered during implementation included unforeseen duration of follow-up, complexity of interpreting and communicating laboratory results to survivors, the urgency of translating research findings into public health practice. Strong community engagement and study tools developed accelerated the implementation of such programs in Ebola Virus disease affected countries, and also informed studies examining Zika virus. Adequate resources should be made available to answer critical research questions, in order to better inform response efforts.
Bacteria live in complex chemical microenvironments with spatio-temporal chemical concentration profiles shaped by nutrient supply, as well as nutrient depletion by surrounding bacteria of the same or other species. One way forward is to exploit our accumulated knowledge about their sensory systems, evolved to detect typical stimuli relevant to the organism, e. g. the concentration of a particular nutrient. The best-characterized bacterium is Escherichia coli, inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract of humans and animals. Although of physiological importance, we currently do not have a good understanding of what chemical gradients microorganisms in the gut typically encounter. We use information theory and simulations, considering limitations of information transmission from both cell-external and internal noise. Our results thus provide a first step towards deciphering the chemical nature of complex, experimentally inaccessible cellular microenvironment, such as the human intestine.
The life-long supply of blood cells depends on the long-term function of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ). Because of their multi-potency and self-renewal capacity, they were thought to have indefinite lifespans. Here, we present a new model based on reliability theory to account for the diversity of lifespan of a stem cell population. We found that the best fit of the experimental data is provided by a model, where the repopulation failure kinetics are largely anti-persistent, or mean-reverting. Thus, failure rates repeatedly increase during population-wide division events and are counteracted and decreased by repair processes. Shorter and longer lived cells differ significantly in their pre-programmed ability to dissipate perturbations. A likely interpretation of these findings is that a system will continue to operate according to its specifications for some time into the future, provided that it has operated reliably in the past.
Approximately one-third of the world's population suffers from chronic helminth infections, with no effective vaccines currently available. Antibodies and alternatively activated macrophages ( AAM ) form crucial components of protective immunity against challenge infections with intestinal worms such as Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri ( Hp ). However, the mechanisms by which antibodies target these large multi-cellular parasites remain obscure. In the current study, we demonstrate that antibody-mediated immune responses to challenge infection with the natural murine parasite Heliophagmus polygillus braziliensis induce the rapid trapping of tissue migrating larvae and prevent tissue necrosis. We also show that antibodies in the presence of Helinase-1, Arginase 1, and L-ornithine directly impaired larval motility. These findings suggest that the mechanism of antibody mediated immune response against intestinal worm infections is likely to involve other cell types.
Chromosome breakage is a major threat to genome integrity and cell survival. The most accurate way to repair DNA double strand breaks ( DSB ) is homologous recombination ( HR ) with an intact copy of the broken locus. Migrating DNA ends are protected by the Ku70-Ku80 complex ( Ku complex ) until a repair pathway is chosen and corresponding proteins recruited. In this study, we have developed a new, non-intrusive method which uses protein oligomerization rather than operator multiplicity to form visible foci. By applying it to HO cleavage of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome III we provide the first real-time analysis of resection in single living cells. Monitoring the dynamics of a chromatin region next to a DNA strand during the very early steps of repair, consistent with the need to keep the ends in contact. Resection in a yku70 mutant began ∼10 min earlier than in wild type, defining this as the period of commitment to homology-dependent repair. Our new DNA-labelling and -targeting method will be widely applicable to fine-scale analyses of genome organization, dynamics and function in normal and pathological contexts.
Chagas disease ( American trypanosomiasis ) is a vector-borne disease primarily transmitted by a broad range of ecologically and evolutionary diversified triatomine species. Despite multinational control initiatives, vectorial transmission is still active in several countries and the disease remains a major public health concern in Latin America, where several million people are at risk of infection. Reinfections by T. cruzi are possible at least in animal models leading to lower or even hardly detectable parasitaemia. In humans, although reinfection are thought to have major health implications by increasing the risk and severity of chronic manifestations, there is little quantitative knowledge about their frequency and timing. Here, we implemented stochastic agent-based models to estimate the rate of re-inoculation in humans and ii ) to assess how frequent are reinceptions during the acute and chronic stages of the infection according to alternative hypotheses on the adaptive immune response. By using a hybrid genetic algorithm, the models were fitted to epidemiological data of Argentinean rural villages where mixed infections by different genotypes of parasite reach 56%. The best model predicted 0. 032 per individual with 98. 4% of them occurring in the chronic phase. These low rates are better explained by the weak efficiency of stercorarian mode of transmission than a highly efficient adaptive system. Those estimates are of particular interest for vaccine development and for our understanding of how chronic disease manifestations suffered by infected people living in endemic areas.
Infection with any of the four types of dengue virus ( DENV-1-4 ) can lead to a range of outcomes, ranging from asymptomatic or subclinical infection to classical or severe infection. Patients with DHF/DSS are most often infants born to individuals experiencing a secondary DENVD infection, indicating a role for pre-existing DENv immunity in exacerbating densue disease. A major challenge for researchers has been identifying the specific immunologic factor ( s ) that contribute individually or in concert to denue pathology or protection from disease, and the mechanisms controlling these differential clinical outcomes remain poorly defined. Through a prospective study in Thailand, we identified school-aged Thai children who experienced a sub-clinical DENDV infection and compared their preexisting immune profiles to peers who had symptomatic infections. Our analysis revealed that the “protective” immune profile suggested by our data indicates roles for a robust innate anti-viral response as well as activation of DEN-specific T cells. The finding of higher levels of some cytokines in subjects who subsequently developed clinical infection supports the existence of both protective and pathologic immunity profiles. Clinical-immunological correlations identified in the context of natural DENVs infection may be useful for evaluating immune responses to vaccines.
Pattern formation in many developing systems depends on the formation and interpretation of morphogen gradients. The classical model of pattern formation conveyed by morphogens is typically illustrated by Wolpert's French Flag model. In the Drosophila wing imaginal disc, secreted Hedgehog ( Hh ) forms an extracellular gradient that organizes patterning along the anterior–posterior axis and specifies at least three different domains of gene expression. However, a direct correspondence between the borders of these patterns and the concentration thresholds has not been demonstrated. Here, we provide evidence that a transient expansion ( or “overshoot” ) of the gradient occurs and that it is required to distinguish different spatial domains. Our mathematical analysis suggests that this transient overshoot results from the up-regulation of a receptor, Patched ( Ptc ). Through experiments conducted in vivo, our results suggest a new model in which gradient dynamics play an instructional role in the establishment of expression patterns.
The mechanisms by which ethanol and inhaled anesthetics influence the nervous system are poorly understood. Here we describe the positional cloning and characterization of a new mouse mutation isolated in an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea ( ENU ) forward mutagenesis screen for animals with enhanced locomotor activity. This mutation disrupts the homolog of the Caenorhabditis elegans unc-79 gene. While Lwt/Lwt homozygotes are perinatal lethal, Lightweight heterozygote phenotypes are dramatically hypersensitive to acute ethanol exposure. Experiments in C. worms demonstrate a conserved hypersensitivity to ethanol in lightweight mutants and extend this observation to the related unc -80 mutant and nca-1;nca -2 double mutants, which are mildly hyperactive when exposed to a novel environment and are smaller than wild-type animals. The acute hyperactivity and increased voluntary consumption of ethanol, combined with the observed phenotypic findings, suggest a pathway that might influence alcohol-related behaviors in humans.
Malaria remains one of the world's most devastating infectious diseases, and its successful control will require a multifaceted approach involving a combination of multiple strategies. A multitude of potential methods to prevent mosquito-to-human transmission exist, including several based on manipulating the mosquito's immune response against Plasmodium. One such mechanism is the Imd pathway, a conserved immune signaling pathway that has potent anti-P. falciparum activity. Silencing the expression of gene encoding the negative regulator, Caspar, or over-expressing rel2, an ImD pathway-controlled NFkappaB transcription factor, confers a resistant phenotype on A. gambiae mosquitoes that involves an array of immune effector genes. However, unexplored features of this powerful mechanism that may be essential for the implementation of a malaria control strategy still remain. Using RNA interference to singly or dually silence gene expression, we have identified genes that are essential to the parasite-parasite interaction. We also determined the relevance of these components and regulated effectors TEP1, APL1 and LRIM1 in parasite infection intensity-dependent defense, thereby shedding light on the importance of laboratory versus natural infections intensity models.
Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BMMSCs ) have been considered as a promising therapy in fibrotic diseases. However, they do not induce tissue rejection and exert a localized effect than the systemic classical pharmacological strategies. In this study, we investigated the anti-fibroticity potential and the regenerative effect of BMMCs in an experimental model of lung fibrosis induced by the fungal pathogen Paracoccidioides brasiliensis in a mouse model. We observed an increase of granulomatous inflammatory areas in infected mice and a decrease of TIMP-1 and MMP-13 gene expression. Finally, human fibroblasts were stimulated with homogenized lung supernatants ( HLS ) to determine induction of collagen I. Our findings indicate that late infusion into mice infected with the fungus promotes collagen expression and tissue remodeling. The potential risk for using immunosuppressive drugs or biological agents in host with other unknown latent infections, should be considered.
Leishmania infantum is the main causative agent of zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) and also responsible for cases of human and canine disease. The recent geographical expansion of phlebotomine vectors towards northern latitudes or higher altitudes has been attributed to ongoing climate changes. Because seasonal phenomena are also sensitive to general variations in climate, current phenological data sets can provide a baseline for continuing investigations on sand fly population dynamics that may impact on future scenarios of transmission. With this aim, in 2011–2013 a consortium of partners from eight Mediterranean countries carried out entomological investigations in sites where transmission was recently reported. A common protocol for collecting specimens included monthly captures by CDC light traps, complemented by sticky traps in most of the sites. Collections were replicated for more than one season in order to reduce the effects of local weather events. In each site, the trapping effort was left unchanged throughout the survey to legitimate inter-seasonal comparisons. Data from 99, 000 collected specimens were analyzed, resulting in the description of seasonal dynamics of about 56000 sand flies belonging to vector species throughout a wide geographical area. We found a common pattern of nocturnal females activity, whose density peaked between 11 pm and 2 am, and a 3-modal trend, recorded for P. tobbi in Cyprus, which we propose may represent sentinel areas for future monitoring.
Orientia tsutsugamushi is the causative agent of scrub typhus, a life-threatening disease characterized by fever, lymphadenopathy, rash and eschar that can be complicated by interstitial pneumonitis, meningitis and myocarditis. It is confined geographically to the Asia-Pacific region, and a billion of people are at risk and one million new cases arise each year. To date, no effective strategy has succeeded in generating long lasting, protective immunity to this particular infection despite aggressive attempts to develop a prophylactic vaccine. This study highlights the role of IFN-mediated activation of monocytes and their subsequent polarization into an M1 phenotype.
Ants, like many other animals, use visual memory to follow extended routes through complex environments, but it is unknown how their small brains implement this capability. The mushroom body neuropils have been identified as a crucial memory circuit in the insect brain. We show that a spiking neural model of this circuit originally developed to describe fruitfly ( Drosophila melanogaster ) olfactory association, can also account for the ability of desert ants ( Cataglyphis velox ) to rapidly learn visual routes, using realistic stimuli derived directly from our field experiments.
Plants utilize an innate immune system to protect themselves from disease. While many molecular components of plant immunity resemble the innate immunity of animals, plants also have evolved a number of truly unique defense mechanisms, particularly at the physiological level. For example, when Arabidopsis protects itself against drought by abscising its cauline leaves, it uses the same set of signaling components as are required for the shedding of flower petals after fertilization. Here we develop a system that allows plants to shed entire affected organs as part of the defense mechanism. This system builds on the extremely well-studied pathosystem in which rosette leaves from non-flowering, accession Columbia are infected with Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato strain DC3000. We propose a threshold model where minor infections are handled by limiting bacterial growth, but when an infection is deemed out of control, the leaves are shed. Together with previous results, our findings suggest that salicylic acid may regulate both pathogen- and drought-triggered leaf shedding.
The detection of image motion is a major function of the visual system. It is needed for the trajectory prediction of moving objects and provides information about motion relative to the environment. To study the mechanisms underlying the computation of direction selectivity ( DS ) in SAC dendrites, electrical responses to expanding and contracting circular wave visual stimuli were measured via somatic whole-cell recordings and quantified using Fourier analysis. Fundamental and, especially, harmonic frequency components were larger for expanding stimuli, suggesting that inhibitory network interactions are not essential. The presence of harmonics indicates nonlinearity, which, as the relationship between harmonic amplitudes and holding potential indicates, is likely due to activation of voltage-gated channels.
The number of pathogens that are required to infect a host, termed infective dose, varies dramatically across pathogen species. It has recently been predicted that this variation will depend on the mode of action of the molecules that pathogens use to facilitate their infection. Specifically, pathogens which use locally acting molecules will require a lower infection dose than those that use distantly acting proteins. Furthermore, it has also been suggested that pathogenic bacteria may be more virulent because they have large numbers of cells in the inoculums, which will cause more harm to host cells. Here, we formally test these predictions for the first time using data on 43 different human pathogens from a range of taxonomic groups with diverse life-histories. We found that the virulence of pathogens using local action does not correlate with infection rate, but is not less virogenic than pathogens using distant action. Instead, our results show that infection via wounded skin requires physical contact between an infected and susceptible host.
Schistosomes are parasitic flatworms and causative agents of schistomiasis, a disease affecting circa 200 million people, primarily in underprivileged regions of the world. They infect the definitive host by pairing with a male worm, lodging in the male’s gynecophoral canal, and laying hundreds of eggs each day. In the absence of male worms, the female remains sexually immature and stunted in size. To identify whether microRNAs exert an effect on the transcriptome we use the completely unaware “miRNA-blind” bioinformatics tool Sylamer to analyse transcripts differentially expressed between the juvenile and adult stages. We show that the miR-277/4989 family target sequence is the only one significantly enriched in transition from juvenile to adult worms. Further, we describe a novel miRNA that is expressed in tegumental cells located proximal to the oesophagus gland and also distributed throughout the adult worm body. Our results indicate that sma-miR277 and 4989 might play a dominant role in post-transcriptional regulation during development of juvenile worms and suggest an important role of adult stem-cell maintenance.
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ( SARS ) is a severe emerging viral disease with high fatality characterized by fever, headache and severe respiratory symptoms including cough, dyspnea and pneumonia. Due to its high transmissibility among humans, after its first emergence in southern China in late 2002, it rapidly led to a global pandemic in 2003 and was marked as one of the most significant public health threats in the 21st century. Recently we report the latest results of our 5-year longitudinal surveillance of bat sARSr-CoVs in this single location and systematic evolutionary analysis using full-length genome sequences of 15 newly discovered strains ( 11 novel ones and 4 from previous studies ) in Yunnan Province, China. In addition to our previous findings, we have identified the first discovery of bats with diverse S protein sequences from this cave, including the S1 gene, the receptor-binding domain ( RBD ) and the non-structural protein genes ORF1a and 1b, respectively. Recombination analysis shows evidence of frequent recombination events between these S gene and receptor regions. We hypothesize that the direct progenitor of this disease may have originated after sequential recombinating events.
Soil transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections ( Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichuris trichiura, and the hookworms Necator americanus and Ancylostoma duodenale ) contribute significantly to morbidity in humans in endemic countries. The major means of controlling these infections is by the periodic administration of anthelmintic drugs. Given the fact that high levels of resistance have developed to these same drugs in roundworms of livestock, there is a need to monitor drug efficacy in human infections. A faecal egg count reduction test ( FECRT ) is presently under examination by WHO as a means to detect the emergence of drug resistance. We have examined the potential impact of density dependent fecundity on FEC RT data. Recent evidence with the canine hookworm indicates that this phenomenon shows dynamic properties in response to drug treatment. This will impact on measurements of drugs efficacy, as worms within different human cases will likely be present at quite different densities prior to a proposed fecRT.
The tree-like structure of the mammalian lung is generated from branching morphogenesis, a reiterative process that is precisely regulated by numerous factors. How the cell surface and extra cellular matrix ( ECM ) molecules regulate this process is still poorly understood. Herein, we show that epithelial deletion of Heparan Sulfate ( HS ) synthetase Ext1 resulted in expanded branching tips and reduced branching number, associated with several mesenchymal developmental defects. We further demonstrate an expanded Fgf10 expression and increased FGF signaling activity in mutant lungs, suggesting a cell non-autonomous mechanism. Consistent with this, the production of biologically active form of SHH was reduced after loss of HS in the epithelium. Thus, these data highlight the crucial requirement of HSPH in SHSHH-producing cells, and reveal the importance of this pathway.
Cancer is a disease driven by selection for somatic mutations. These mutations range from single nucleotide changes to large-scale chromosomal aberrations such as deletion, duplications, inversions and translocations. While many such mutations have been cataloged in cancer cells via cytogenetics, gene resequencing, and array-based techniques ( i. e. comparative genomic hybridization ) there is now great interest in using genome sequencing to provide a comprehensive understanding of mutations that might provide tumor-specific biomarkers or drug targets. The Cancer Genome Atlas ( http://cancergenome. nih. gov/index. asp ) is one such sequencing initiative that focuses sequencing efforts in the pilot phase on point mutations in coding regions. This approach largely ignores copy neutral genome rearrangements including translocation and inversion, which are common in hematological disorders and sarcomas, with few suggesting that such recurrent events were prevalent across all tumor types including solid tumors. Here, we derive several formulae that elucidate the trade-offs in experimental design of both current and next-generation sequencing technologies.
Chemotaxis involves the coordinated action of separable but interrelated processes: motility, gradient sensing, and polarization. We have hypothesized that these are mediated by separate modules that account for these processes individually and that, when combined, recreate most of the behaviors of chemotactic cells. Here, we describe a mathematical model where the modules are implemented in terms of reaction-diffusion equations. Migration and the accompanying changes in cellular morphology are demonstrated in simulations using a mechanical model. The central module is an excitable network that accounts for random migration. A local excitation, global inhibition module that biases the direction in which excitability is directed and, for unstimulated cells, to gradually acquire distinct sensitivity between front and back. Finally, by varying the strengths of various feedback loops in the model we obtain cellular behaviors that mirror those of genetically altered cell lines.
Spermatogenesis is essential for the generation of haploid male gametes required for sexual reproduction in higher eukaryotes. Meiotic prophase I is by far the longest phase of meiosis, lasting approximately three weeks in most mammals. The spliceosome is a large and flexible macromolecular machine with more than a hundred RNA and protein components. It is composed of the key protein arginine methyl transferase PRMT5, which supports splicing. TDRD6 also associates with the main protein core protein SmB in the absence of RNA. In Tdrd6-/- diplotene cells, the association with SmBs is much reduced. This study demonstrates a novel function of TDSD 6 in splicesome maturation and mRNA-splicing during spermiogenesis.
Bacterial populations that colonize a host can play important roles in host health, including serving as a reservoir that transmits to other hosts and from which invasive strains emerge, thus emphasizing the importance of understanding rates of acquisition and clearance of colonizing populations. Studies of colonization dynamics have been based on assessment of whether serial samples represent a single population or distinct colonization events. With the use of whole genome sequencing to determine genetic distance between isolates, a common solution has been to assume a fixed distance threshold below which strains are considered to represent the same strain. However, this approach is often inadequate to account for the diversity of the underlying within-host evolving population, the time intervals between consecutive measurements, and the uncertainty in the estimated rate of bacterial clearance and acquisition. Here, we present a fully Bayesian model for determining whether two strains should be considered the different strain, allowing us to infer the relationship between them. We demonstrate the method with multiple carefully conducted simulations and demonstrate its use in practice by analyzing a collection of methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) strains from a large recently completed longitudinal clinical study. This method is freely available at: https://github. com/mjarvenpaa/bacterial-colonization model.
Plants continuously generate new organs through the activity of populations of stem cells called meristems. This remarkable arrangement of organs is called phyllotaxy and varies according to particular plant species and growth conditions. It is now widely accepted that the plant hormone auxin plays a major role in this process. Current hypotheses propose that cellular hormone transporters of the PIN family would create local auxins maxima at precise positions, which in turn would lead to organ initiation. In this work, computational modelling provides a powerful means to test this type of complex hypothesis.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) affects internal organs such as liver, spleen and bone marrow, and leads to death if left untreated. In 2015 over 23. 000 new cases were reported to the world health organization, while an overall case-fatality rate of 10% has been estimated. Previous investigations demonstrated the potential of IgG1 as a biomarker for monitoring clinical status in rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ), although using a crude lysate antigen ( CLA ) as capturing antigen. Replacing the CLA by specific antigens would lead to more robust tests. Here we employed comparative genomics as well as in silico algorithms to reduce drastically the output of wet lab experiments, focusing on promising candidates containing selected protein features. By screening a large number of peptides using arrays, we identified the most promising one, for which the sensitivity and specificity, with limited sample size, supported this proof of concept strategy for diagnostics discovery.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) is a group of protozoan diseases transmitted to human beings by the bite of female sandflies of the genera Phlebotidae. CL is thought to be exceedingly rare in endemic and nonendemic regions. The most common diagnostic approach used in these countries is still microscopic examination despite the advances in molecular diagnostic techniques and culture methods. In our large cohort of 317 patients with molecularly proven diagnosis of CL, we encountered a significant number of caseating granulomas overlapping clinically and microscopically with the diagnostic picture of TB and CL. This unusual finding can hamper the expedient diagnosis in CL and its related variables.
Type 2 diabetes is associated with obesity and results from a combination of adipogenic and diabetogenic alleles. Here we report the identification of a candidate gene for the diabetic phenotype contributed by the SJL, NON, and NZB strains in outcross populations with New Zealand Obese ( NZO ) mice. We have previously identified a QTL ( Nidd/SJL ) on distal chromosome 4 ( 2. 1 Mbp ) that aggravated and accelerated diabetes. In the critical interval, a retrotransposon ( IAPLTR1a ) in intron 3 disrupted the gene by formation of truncated mRNA that lacked the coding sequence of the KRAB ( Krüppel-associated box ) and Znf-C2H2 domains of Zfp69. When combined with the B6. V-Lepob background, the DBA background produced hyperglycaemia, reduced gonadal fat mass and increased plasma and liver triglycerides. mRNA levels in adipose tissue from patients with diabetes were significantly increased in obese mice carrying the ZFP69 gene.
Alternative cell differentiation pathways are believed to arise from the concerted action of signalling pathways and transcriptional regulatory networks. However, the prediction of mammalian cells differentiation is currently a daunting challenge. In this work, we propose an integrated, comprehensive model of the regulatory network controlling the late stages of ( TCR+, CD4+ ) T helper ( Th ) differentiation. As most available data are qualitative, little or no quantitative information is available on the relative strengths or rates of these processes. We use an original model reduction approach together with a stable state identification algorithm to perform extensive dynamical analyses. To assess the effects of heterogeneous environments on Th cell development and polarisation we have performed a systematic series of simulations considering various prototypic environments. Our logical analysis highlights the nature of this cell types and their relationships with canonical Th subtypes. Finally, our logical model can be used to explore novel differentiation pathway in silico.
Transcription factors that drive complex patterns of gene expression during animal development bind to thousands of genomic regions throughout the genome, with quantitative differences in binding across bound regions mediating their activity. While we now have tools to characterize the DNA affinities of these proteins and to precisely measure their genome-wide distribution in vivo, our understanding of the forces that determine where and when they bind remains primitive. Here we use a thermodynamic model of transcription factor binding to evaluate the contribution of different biophysical forces to the binding of five regulators of early embryonic anterior-posterior patterning in Drosophila melanogaster. Our results show that, in regions of open chromatin, binding can be predicted almost exclusively by the sequence specificity of individual factors. This model explains why animal transcription factors show such widespread, overlapping binding.
Cell proliferation is a critical event in organ formation and it is regulated by multiple cellular signals. During development, individual cells interpret these signals to determine whether to continue proliferating or to induce cell cycle arrest and initiate differentiation. This process has received a great deal of attention, yet many aspects of this process have yet to be elucidated. The basic helix-loop-helix ( bHLH ) transcription factors are key regulatory molecules that control multiple developmental processes in species from yeast to humans. Identifying these mechanisms is essential to understand the development processes that occur both in physiological and pathological conditions, such as cancer.
Reversible phosphorylation is one of the major mechanisms of signal transduction, and signaling networks are critical regulators of cell growth and development. However, few of these networks have been delineated completely. Towards this end, quantitative phosphoproteomics is emerging as a useful tool enabling large-scale determination of relative protein-protein interactions in response to genetic or environmental perturbations. In this study, we propose a comprehensive quantitative analysis pipeline customized for phosphopeptide meta-analysis, correlation network analysis and causal relationship discovery. We have successfully applied our pipeline to interventional experiments identifying key proteins in specific pathways underlying the transition to a filamentous growth form in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. All of our predicted proteins are involved in stress responses. Nine of them have direct or indirect evidence of involvement.
Heteromorphic sex chromosomes ( e. g., XY in males or ZW in females ) have evolved independently many times in animals and plants. Dosage compensation, the process that equalizes X chromosome gene expression levels between the XY and XX sexes, and meiotic sex chromosome inactivation ( MSCI ) —the facultative heterochromatinization and early transcriptional silencing of the X and the Y chromosomes in germline cells entering meiosis in XY individuals—have evolved repeatedly. In Drosophila, dosage compensation appears mostly absent, as both X chromosomes are transcriptionally active in male somatic tissues. Here we report three new findings concerning the regulation of X in the male germ line. First, we confirm the previous discovery that the expression of transgene reporters driven by autosomal spermatogenesis-specific promoters is strongly reduced when inserted on the S chromosome versus the autosomes; but we show that this chromosomal difference in expression is established in premeiotic cells and persists in adult males and females. These findings help to resolve several previously conflicting reports and have implications for patterns of genome evolution and speciation.
Citrobacter rodentium infection is a mouse model for the important human diarrheal infection caused by enteropathogenic E. coli ( EPEC ). The pathogenesis of both species is very similar and depends on their unique ability to form intimately epithelial “attachment/effacement” ( A/E ) lesions. These microcolonies must be dynamic and able to self-renew by continuous re-infection of the rapidly regenerating epithelium. It is unknown whether sustained intestinal A-E lesion pathology is achieved through the persistence of bacteria from the luminal compartment or local spread of sessile bacteria without a planktonic phase. In the present study, we show that the early stages of C. rodentiosis are restricted to a very short window of opportunity that determines both disease geography and severity. Our data demonstrate that an early host innate immune response is induced at an important early stage of infection and determines ongoing disease severity by limiting the induction of a de novo infection by bacteria that intimately attach to and colonize the intestinal mucosal surface and induce the local destruction of an infected tissue. This delay has been assumed to result from microbiota-dependent colonization resistance decelerating intestinal colonization despite the continuous presence of phenotypically virulent bacteria. Mechanistically, induced resistance to the infection de-novo formation is mediated by TLR- and inflammasome-related pro-inflammatory signaling.
Malaria’s genome contains a repertoire of ∼ 60 hypervariable and mutually distinct var genes, but repertoires differ between parasites, evolving rapidly through recombination and reassortment. In practice, however, only a fraction of each population's objects are likely to be sampled due to stochastic data collection or sequencing techniques. Although methods exists for quantifying population overlap under subsampled conditions, their bias is well documented and the uncertainty of their estimates cannot be quantified. Here we derive and validate a method to rigorously estimate the extent to which repertoiring overlap between two populations is known, a special case of the more general β-diversity problem that is particularly relevant in the ecology and genomic epidemiology of malaria. By solving a Bayesian inference problem, this method takes into account the rates of sampling and produces unbiased and Bayes-optimal estimates of overlap, and can be used prospectively in study planning.
Eukaryotic protein kinases regulate most cellular functions by phosphorylating targeted protein substrates through a highly conserved catalytic core. The active state of an EPK oscillates between open, intermediate, and closed conformations. Currently, the intramolecular interactions that regulate the active states mechanics are not well understood. Here, using cAMP-dependent proteins kinase as a representative model coupled with biochemical, biophysical, computational techniques, we define a set of interactions working harmoniously to regulate these mechanics. These include the previously identified salt bridge between a lysine and a glutamate from the β3-strand and an ensemble of hydrophobic residues of the Regulatory spine and Shell. Moreover, for over three decades it was thought that the highly-conserved β2-lysine was essential for the membrane transfer of ATP to a protein substrate, but our findings show that it is not.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia species of helminth worms. Globally, an estimated 68 million people are infected; with 36 million microfilaemic people and 36 millions people who are disabled or disfigured because of complications including lymphoedema, elephantiasis and scrotal hydrocoeles. The World Health Organization recommends systematic post-MDA surveillance using Transmission Assessment Surveys ( TAS ) for epidemiological assessment of recent LF transmission. In 2016, we conducted a systematic school-based survey in all elementary schools ( N = 29 ) and a cluster survey ( n = 2507, 711 households ) in 28 villages on the two main islands of American Samoa. We collected information on demographics and risk factors for infection using electronic questionnaires, and recorded geo-locations of schools and households. Blood samples were collected to test for circulating filarial antigen ( CFA ) using the Alere Filariasis Test Strip. Of 86 antigen-positive community members from whom slides were prepared, 22 ( 25. 6% ) were Microfilaraemic. Our results showed that the community survey did not provide a good indication of the overall prevalence in older age groups and was not sensitive at identifying foci of ongoing transmission, particularly if there is significant spatial variation in prevalence within an evaluation unit.
Sex determination is the process by which an animal determines whether it will develop as a male or a female. In most animals the primary and secondary sex determination mechanisms are considered to lead to a stably differentiated sexual fate. However, in some animals, sex can be reversed at some point during their adult life cycles, such as in teleost fish. Here, we show that oocytes, or germ cells, are also required throughout the life of the animal to maintain the differentiated female state. We therefore generated targeted mutations in genes for two oocyte produced signaling molecules, Bmp15 and Gdf9, and here report a novel role for this signaling molecule in maintaining adult female sex differentiation in zebrafish. Females deficient in the aromatase cyp19a1a begin development normally but switch sex during the mid- to late- juvenile stage and become fertile males. Additionally, by generating mutations that inhibit the synthesis of estrogen-producing granulosa cells in their follicle, the function of this signal is likely linked to estrogen biosynthesis via promoting the development of these cells.
Hox genes are the major regulators of morphogenetic diversity along the anterior–posterior body axis of animals by regulating distinct sets of target genes. To achieve this high-regulatory specificity, it has been postulated that Hox proteins co-operate with other transcription factors to activate or repress their targets in a highly context-specific manner in vivo. However, only a few of these factors have been analyzed in some detail in Drosophila. Here, we analyze the regulation of the cell death gene reaper ( rpr ) by the transcriptional regulator Deformed ( Dfd ). Within their spatially restricted expression domains, these regulators are recruited to a minimal Rpr enhancer through a combinatorial interaction with at least eight functionally diverse regulatory elements. Our data show that a large number of factors are likely to be directly involved in the proper spatio-temporal expression of small, modular transcription factor enhancers.
Plants encounter a wide variety of pathogens. To defend against infection, plants rely on their organ surfaces as pre-formed barriers to infection. Plants have evolved an active, two-layered immune system. The first branch utilizes transmembrane receptors ( PRRs, or pattern recognition receptors ) which detect microbe-associated molecular patterns ( MAMPs ). MAMP detection elicits a rapid, relatively low-amplitude host transcriptional response, which is sufficient to halt growth of many microbes. Successful pathogens can suppress or delay MTI via delivery of effector molecules into host cells. Pathogen effectors are typically virulence proteins of the NB-LRR family. In this study, we show that the autoactive mutant of an Arabidopsis coiled-coil ( CC ) -NB-lRR protein functions as a “helper” to transduce specific microbial activation signals. This helper activity does not require an intact P-loop, suggesting that these functions resemble those that regulate an SA–gradient-dependent signal amplification of defense and cell death signaling initially observed in the absence of LSD1. These data allows us to propose a genetic model that provides insight into a feedback regulation loop that, surprisingly, includes ADR2.
DNA methylation is an important chromatin mark related to transposon silencing, gene imprinting, genome stability, and gene expression regulation. The Arabidopsis microrchidia ( VAR ) 3-9 homolog SUVH9 and the double-stranded RNA-binding protein IDN2 were thought to be components of a transcriptionally repressive pathway. In this study, we demonstrate that the RdDM components including Pol IV, Pol V, RDR2 and DRM2 interact with MORC6 to mediate transcriptional silence at a subset of MORCs target loci. Furthermore, our genetic analysis indicates that MORR6 is also required for transcription of transcription by heterochromatin condensation. This study illustrates how DNA methylating is linked to the regulation of DNA structure and thereby enhances transcription at methylated genomic regions.
Human malformations frequently show no clear Mendelian inheritance pattern, even when familial recurrence suggests a strong underlying genetic component. Such variability is generally defined as incomplete penetrance or variable expressivity, and it may be influenced by genetic background as well as by environmental factors. Predicting phenotypic outcomes for such cases is often an impossible challenge in clinical genetics. As a corollary, it has become clear that robustness of the wild-type ( WT ) phenotype to extensive genetic and environmental variation is ascribed to the complexity and hence strong buffering capacity of gene networks and cellular surveillance mechanisms. These homeostatic systems are of major clinical relevance as potential prophylactic and therapeutic targets. Understanding the molecular events that can alter the balance between cryptic and overt phenotypes is therefore an important endeavour. Here we report that previously unobserved specific developmental anomalies were uncovered following partial inhibition of heat shock protein 90 ( Hsp90 ) function in zebrafish. We also show that this molecular stress-response chaperone has a capacity to buffer genetic variation without affecting overall development.
Protein modifications play a major role for most biological processes in living organisms. Amino-terminal acetylation of proteins is a common modification found throughout the tree of life: the N- terminal of a nascent polypeptide chain becomes co-translationalally methylated, often after the removal of the initiating methionine residue. While the enzymes and protein complexes involved in these processes have been extensively studied, only little is known about the biological function of such modifications. Here we present an extensive compilation of mature protein proteins from Drosophila melanogaster that was obtained by shotgun proteomics as well as by COFRADIC. We detected more than 1, 200 mature proteins. As the sole true determinant for the sequence requirements ( amino acids ) that promote iMet cleavage, we could extract the ( X ) PX rule that indicates the prevention of amino acid methylation under all circumstances. Since the rule seems to be of general validity in lower and higher eukaryotes we propose that it can be used to genetically engineer a protein to study the functional relevance of its presence or absence in all species.
The ability of RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) III to efficiently recycle from termination to reinitiation is critical for abundant tRNA production during cellular proliferation, development and cancer. Yet understanding of the unique termination mechanisms used by RNap III is incomplete, as is its link to high transcription output in vivo are largely unknown. Here we used two genetic screens to screen for Rpc1 mutants with gain- and loss- of termination phenotypes in S. pombe. 122 point mutation mutants were mapped to a recently solved 3. 9 Å structure of yeast RNA elongation complex ( EC ) ; they cluster in the active center bridge helix and trigger loop as well as the pore and funnel, the latter of which indicate involvement of C11 subunit in RNA cleavage. Purified RNA from a readthrough ( RT ) mutant exhibits increased length, and more RNA than wild type cells. The data strongly support a kinetic coupling model in which length is inversely related to termination efficiency. Furthermore, increased activity by the mutants appears unrelated to the RNA repressor, Maf1. Our results show that the mobile elements of RN AP III active centers, including C9, are key determinants of transcription. Similar mutations in spontaneous cancer suggest this as an unforeseen mechanism of activation in disease.
The cell's ability to respond to internal and external cues depends largely on reversible post-translational modifications of proteins, such as phosphorylation, ubiquitylation or methylation. These modifications often occur on short unstructured stretches of protein and are read by domains that recognize the modified form. We have developed a method to predict the binding specificity of SH2-phosphopeptide complexes and the FoldX algorithm. Our method performs similarly to experimentally derived consensus sequences and substitution matrices at predicting known in vitro and in vivo target sequences. The predicted interactions can be used to derive biologically relevant testable hypothesis.
The accumulation of amyloidogenic proteins is a pathological hallmark of neurodegenerative disorders, the most common of which is Alzheimer’s disease ( AD ). Recent work has shown that the isomerase activity of cyclophilin 40 ( CyP40 ), a PPIase, is regulated through its interaction with Hsp90, which regulates both secondary structure and aggregation propensity. In this study, we identified a novel disaggregation mechanism by which a cytoplasmic peptidyl-prolyl isomersase is capable of disaggregating tau aggregates. We demonstrate that a C-terminal domain containing 3 tetratricopeptide repeat ( TPR ) motifs is enriched with proline residues, and that this activity is dependent on interactions with other aggregating proteins that contain prolines. Furthermore, 2 conformational states, found in the Protein Data Bank, provide evidence for a potential mechanism to drive ATP-independent substrate binding. These data implicate the use of cyp40 as an energy-efficient mechanism for the aggregation and disassembly of intracellular proteins and suggest that these proteins could be exploited to mitigate disease pathogenesis.
Heterocyst differentiation in cyanobacteria filaments is one of the simplest examples of cellular differentiation and pattern formation in multicellular organisms. Despite the many experimental studies addressing the evolution and sustainment of this process, there is still a theoretical gap connecting these two macroscopic and microscopic processes. As an attempt to shed light on this issue, here we develop a simple mathematical model by incorporating the recent experimental results into the theoretical machinery of system biology. Our results point out that, by including both diffusion and noisy external conditions in the computational model, it is possible to reproduce the main features that arise from the dynamical behavior of a system as observed experimentally. Finally, we discuss the validity and possible improvements.
The fight against onchocerciasis in Africa has boomed thanks to the Community Directed Treatment with Ivermectin ( CDTI ) program. However, in Cameroon, after more than 15 years of mass treatment, the disease is still above the non-transmission threshold. This study aimed to explore a possible association between people’s beliefs/perceptions of CDT program, their perceptions of the program and their adherence to ivermotin in three regions of Cameroon. A cross sectional survey was carried out in 30 clusters per district. People who had a “not positive” opinion of iversmectionin distribution campaigns were less compliant than those who did not have a positive opinion about the campaigns. Among all factors related to program perceptions and disease representations that were studied, perceptions were more strongly associated to adherence. In addition to education/sensitisation on oncocercasis, local health authorities should strive to better involve communities and more encourage community distributors‘ work.
Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have resulted in the identification of thousands of genetic variants that are associated with human traits and diseases. However, there is no strong evidence that epigenetic alterations are directly causal for disease pathogenesis. In this study, we combined SNP and DNA methylation data with measurements of protein biomarkers for cancer, inflammation or cardiovascular disease, to investigate the relative contribution of genetics and epigenetics to variation in biomarker levels. We identified 124 and 45 loci ( Bonferroni adjusted P < 0. 05 ) with effect sizes up to 1. 22 standard units’ change per 1% change of the gene encoding the respective protein. All EWAS signals that overlapped with a genome locus were driven by underlying genetic variant, and three of these signals were confounded by smoking. While some cis-regulatory SNPs for markers of disease appeared to have an effect also on the levels of markers, they were not observed to affect markers. The associations are likely to reflect the underlying pattern of genes, specific environmental exposures, or represent secondary effects to the disease.
Natural killer ( NK ) cells are cytotoxic innate lymphocytes that exert a significant influence on the control of viral infection. In response to this, many viruses encode strategies to evade detection and elimination by NK cells. This is particularly the case with herpesviruses, where their lifelong persistence depends upon a balance between immune evasion and control that has arisen due to millennia of coevolution between virus and host. A clear example of this is seen with infections caused by the human alphaherpesvirus varicella zoster virus ( VZV ). Here we demonstrate that the virus can directly affect NK cell function. We show that in the presence of a virus that is highly permissive to virus in culture, NK immune cells that are exposed to the viral inoculum are also inhibited. Furthermore, the closely related virus, herpes simplex virus type 1 ( HSV-1 ), was also capable of efficiently infecting cells in a cell-associated manner, and demonstrated a similar capacity to render cells unresponsive to target cell stimulation. Our findings indicate for the first time that multiple aspects of the immune response are directly targeted by two different human pathogens.
Apparent motion ( AM ) is a type of illusory motion that can be perceived when two stimuli alternately presented at different locations can evoke a percept of a stimulus continuously moving between the two locations. The neural mechanism underlying this apparent motion is thought to be increased activation of primary visual cortex ( V1 ) neurons tuned to locations along the AM path. AM masking, which refers to the reduced detectability of the apparent movement of an apparent stimulus, has been taken as evidence for AM-related AM activation. In the present study, we use computational modeling to uncover the actual cause of AM maskeding. We find that AM has a distinct effect on the detection of target gratings, limiting the maximum performance at high contrast levels. Our model instead predicts strong suppression of early sensory responses during AM, consistent with the theoretical framework of predictive coding.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ), the first human oncogenic retrovirus that was originally described in 1980, has been received much scientific attention due to its ability to transform rodent fibroblasts and human primary T cells in the presence of IL-2. Tax interacts with more than 100 host cell proteins and undergoes heavy post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation, ubiquitination, sumoylation and acetylation to control or modulate its cellular activities. We reconstituted Tax-stimulated IKK activation in a cell-free system to dissect the essential cellular components that are involved in primary activation by Tax and studied the underlying biochemical mechanism. Our studies revealed the biochemical function and underlying mechanism of Tax in NF-κB activation.
A consistent determinant of the establishment success of alien species appears to be the number of individuals that are introduced to found a population ( propagule pressure ), yet variation in the form of this relationship has been largely unexplored. Here, we present the first quantitative systematic review in this form, using Bayesian meta-analytical methods. Our analyses show that the relationship between propagation and establishment is consistent across a broad range of taxa and life histories, including invertebrates, herbaceous plants and long-lived trees, and terrestrial and aquatic vertebrates. We found that propagation most critically depended on the size of individual propagules. Heterogeneity in effect size was associated primarily with different analytical approaches, with some evidence of larger effect sizes in animal rather than plant introductions. Conversely, no variation was accounted for in any analysis by the scale of study ( field to global ) or methodology ( observational, experimental, or proxy ) used.
Interleukin 17A ( IL-17 ), a mediator implicated in chronic and severe inflammatory diseases, enhances the production of pro-inflammatory mediators by attenuating decay of the encoding mRNAs. A major mRNA decay pathway is mediated by AU-rich-elements ( AREs ) in the 3′-untranslated region, which are found in 8% of human transcripts encoding inflammatory signals, transcription factors, proteins controlling the cell cycle, and many other classes of proteins, affecting virtually all cellular and physiological processes. Here we show that the AUBps and the target mRNA assemble in a novel ribonucleoprotein complex, where microRNA16 ( miR16 ) is ubiquitously expressed. In the presence of this protein, we observed that IL17 attenuates the expression and binding of stabilizing proteins over that of destabilizing protein. These findings indicate that miRs16 independently of a seed sequence, directs the competition between degrading and stabilization proteins for target mRNA degradation. Since the interaction between microRNA16 and IL 17 may be important in addition to inflammation affecting other cellular processes such as lung epithelial ( -like ) cells.
African animal trypanosomiasis ( AAT ) is one of the most important diseases limiting agricultural output in affected areas. The chronic form of HAT, caused by T. brucei gambiense, is found in southeast Uganda, while the acute form is confined to east and southern Africa. In recent years the number of cases reported to the World Health Organization has been steadily declining to a fifty year low of 10, 000 cases in 2009, a spread linked to movement of infected cattle following restocking. Cattle act as long-term reservoirs of human infective and non-human parasites, showing few signs of morbidity, yet posing a significant risk to human health. It is important to understand the relationship between cattle and infected individuals so that an appropriate response can be made to mitigate the risk posed to humans from animals infected with human pathogens in a village setting. This paper examines the relationships between human infection and infection in cattle at village level in Kaberamaido and Dokolo Districts, Uganda.
Histone acetyltransferases ( HATs ) and histone deacetylases are involved in the regulation of X-chromosomal and autosomal genes as part of the MSL and the NSL complexes, respectively. While the function of these enzymes as dosage compensation regulators is fairly well understood, their role in gene regulation is still poorly characterized. Here, we report a comprehensive ChIP–seq analysis of four N SL complex members ( N1, N3, MBD-R2, and MCRS2 ) throughout the Drosophila melanogaster genome. Strikingly, the majority ( 85. 5% ) of genes are constitutively expressed across different cell types. We find that an increased abundance of transcriptional modifications H4K16ac, H3K4me2 and H2K9ac in promoter regions is characteristic of Nsl-targeted genes. Furthermore, our results show that these genes have a well-defined nucleosome free region and broad transcription initiation patterns. Finally, by performing a quantitative model of DNA-protein interaction affinities and comparing the results with the publicly available data generated by the modENCODE project that uses the same cell type. Taken together, these findings reveal a unique promoter configuration that is indicative of binding and establishes the MOF complex as an important transcription regulator.
Facioscapulohumeral dystrophy ( FSHD ) is a progressive muscular dystrophymic disease caused by decreased epigenetic repression of the D4Z4 macrosatellite repeats and ectopic expression of DUX4, a retrogene encoding a germline transcription factor encoded in each repeat. Unaffected individuals generally have more than 10 repeats arrayed in the subtelomeric region of chromosome 4, whereas the most common form of this disease is caused in skeletal muscle. In this study, we have generated transgenic mice carrying a copy-number dependent expression pattern that recapitulates important features seen in patients and controls, respectively, including high expression levels in both human and mouse germ line tissues, ( incomplete ) transcriptional repression in somatic tissue, and ( variegated ) expression in sporadic muscle nuclei associated with chromatin relaxation. These mice therefore represent a valuable animal model for F SHD and will be a useful resource to study the molecular mechanisms underlying the disease and to test new therapeutic intervention strategies.
Malaria vaccine candidate Apical Membrane Antigen-1 ( AMA1 ) induces protection, but only against parasite strains that are closely related to the vaccine. Understanding the structural basis of cross-strain invasion inhibition would allow for the rational development and testing of a second generation vaccine that targets parasite blood stages.
Asymmetric cell divisions often result from the displacement of the mother cell's mitotic spindle to an asymmetric position within the cell before cytokinesis. Asymmetry in size of cells alone is likely to be important to partition determinants precisely, to allow large stem cells to divide repeatedly without becoming depleted of cytoplasm, and to permit meiosis in oocytes to produce small polar bodies and large eggs. While recent progress has begun to unveil the molecular mechanisms of mitosis, far less is known about how the timing of this displacement is precisely timed. Here, we show that a previously unrecognized timing mechanism is required for the movement of spindles from one side of a cell to the other. We found that this timing is delayed for a short time until the proteasome, the anaphase-promoting complex ( APC ), or Cdc20/Fizzy, inactivates CDK, which is essential for timing the assembly of these components. The consequence of experimentally unlinking the mechanism from this mechanism was the premature displacements of incompletely assembled components, suggesting that it might be evolutionarily conserved.
High-altitude hypoxia ( reduced inspired oxygen tension due to decreased barometric pressure ) exerts severe physiological stress on the human body. Two regions where humans have lived for millennia are the Andean Altiplano and the Tibetan Plateau. Populations living in these regions exhibit unique circulatory, respiratory, and hematological adaptations to life at high altitude. Although these responses have been well characterized physiologically, their underlying genetic basis remains unknown. We performed a genome scan to identify genes showing evidence of adaptation to altitude in Andeans and Tibetans. Applying four population genetic statistics commonly used for detecting signatures of natural selection, we identified selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in These two populations separately. Interestingly, one gene previously known to be important in cellular oxygen sensing, EGLN1 ( also known as PHD2 ), shows evidence for positive selection in both Tibetan and Tibetan populations. However, the pattern of variation for this gene differs between the two population. Our results indicate that several key HIF-regulatory and targeted genes are responsible for adaptation and several different chromosomal regions are implicated in the putative response to selection.
Double strand DNA breaks ( DSBs ) are dangerous events that can result from various causes including environmental assaults or the collapse of DNA replication. The choice of repair pathways is important to maintain genomic integrity. Here we report that inverted DNA repeats can form two types of unusual DNA structures, and the choice between these structures depends on the length of the spacer separating the IRs. In particular, we show that the long ( 12-bp ) and short ( 1-kb ) spacers are predominantly involved in inter- and intra-molecular single-strand annealing ( SSA ) leading to the formation of inverted dimers and fold-back ( FB ) structures. Specifically, FBs with short loops are processed by the MRX-Sae2 complex, whereas the Rad1-Rad10 complex is responsible for the processing of long loops. Overall, our studies uncover the mechanisms of genomic destabilization resulting from re-routing DNA repair from an accurate pathway to a break-induced replication ( BIR ) pathway that leads to genetic instabilities.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen capable of causing both acute and chronic infections in susceptible hosts. Chronic infections are thought to be caused by bacterial biofilms. These microbial communities encased in an extracellular matrix that enable long-term survival in the host. The aim of this research was to develop an animal model that would allow an in vivo study of the bacterial and host response during biofilm infections. At 24 h post oral infection of a Drosophila melanogaster host, the main site of bacterial infection was the food storage organ known as the crop. In this model, P. aeruberculosis was localized to and were visualized in dissected crops of infected flies. This study demonstrated that the localized infection and slower killing kinetics observed following oral infections of fruit flies were a result of host-pathogen interactions. Biofilm formation, by strains PAO1 and PAZHI3, in this crop was associated with induction of diptericin, cecropin A1, drosomycin antimicrobial peptide gene expression 24 hours postinfection, while infection with the non-biofilm forming strain pelB::lux resulted in decreased AMP gene.
Behavior is a trait that is particularly well suited for exploring genetic mechanisms underlying phenotypic plasticity, as it is an evolutionarily labile trait. Social behaviors, in particular, can be markedly variable among closely related species, and often display significant individual variability within a species. The vasopressin 1a receptor gene ( Avpr1a ) provides an excellent opportunity to explore both of these potential mechanisms of gene expression divergence. Previous work has suggested that both the proximal 5′ flanking region and a polymorphic microsatellite element within that region of the gene are associated with species-specific variation in V1A receptor distribution and behavior, but neither has been causally linked. Using homologous recombination in mice, we reveal the modest contribution of this region to species and intra-species differences in expression patterns in vivo in these three lines of mice. We also demonstrate that alterations in receptor binding in the amygdala, thalamus, hippocampus and hippocampus mirroring a subset of differences observed both between and within vole species in voles. This is the first direct evidence that genetic variation within behaviorally relevant genes can contribute to diversity in neural expression profiles, providing a mechanism for generating behavioral diversity both at the individual and species level.
Transcription is a source of genetic instability in eukaryotic cells. High transcription rates can result in increased recombination and mutagenesis, and a variety of factors have an influence on this relationship, including the collision between replication forks and the transcription machinery. Transcription of the switch ( S ) regions of immunoglobulin genes in B cells generates stable R-loops that are targeted by Activation Induced Cytidine Deaminase ( AID ), triggering the formation of C-rich template strands, as well as translocations with c-MYC responsible for Burkitt's lymphomas. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae we developed a yeast chromosomal system to study the mechanisms that generate genome instability mediated by mRNP biogenesis impairment. We observed that the S regions used in this study become a hotspot for DSBs only in wild-type and THO null mutants, consistent with the idea that a significant proportion of such genome rearrangements are caused by the action of AIDs. Our study not only provides new clues to understand the role of mRNAP biogenic in preventing genome changes, but also shows that, once uracil residues are produced by a human enzyme, these are processed into DNA intermediates, which in turn lead to DNA repair functions present from yeast to human cells and not by B cell specific DNA modifying enzymes.
Coordination between cell division and chromosome replication is essential for a cell to produce viable progeny. In the commonly accepted view, Escherichia coli realize this coordination via the accurate positioning of its cell divisions relative to the nucleoids. However, E. coli lacking proper positioning is still successfully propagating. Here we characterize how these cells partition their chromosomes into daughters during such asymmetric divisions. Using quantitative time-lapse imaging, we show that DNA translocase, FtsK, can pump as much as 80% ( 3. 7 Mb ) of the chromosome between daughters at an average rate of 1700±800 bp/s. We observe that the majority of DNA movement occurs at the latest stages of cell partitioning, when the division protein ZipA has already dissociated from the septum, and the channel has closed to a narrow channel with a diameter much smaller than the resolution limit of a microscope ( ~250 nm ). Our data suggest that this narrow constriction is necessary for effective translocation of genetic material.
Epitope-based vaccines ( EVs ) have a wide range of applications: from therapeutic to prophylactic approaches, from infectious diseases to cancer. The development of an EV is based on the knowledge of target-specific antigens from which immunogenic peptides are derived. Such epitopes form the key components of the EV. Due to regulatory, economic, and practical concerns, the number of epitope that can be included in an EVs is limited. Furthermore, as the major histocompatibility complex is highly polymorphic, every patient possesses a set of MHC class I and class II molecules of differing specificities. A peptide combination effective for one person can thus be completely ineffective for another. In this work, we present a mathematical framework that allows the formulation of various flavors of a vaccine design problem and the efficient identification of optimal sets of different sets. We show how common immunological requirements for a good EV ( e. g., coverage of each antigen in a subset of antigen alleles or avoidance of variants with high mutation rates ) can also be translated into constraints or modifications. Our algorithm outperforms a simple greedy strategy as well as a previously suggested evolutionary algorithm and has runtimes of seconds for typical problem sizes.
The majority of HIV-1 infections in women occur through vaginal intercourse, in which virus-containing semen is deposited on the cervico-vaginal mucosa. Semen contains many cytokines and we, among others, have found that the seminal cytokine network is deeply modified by HIV infection. Here, we investigated the effect of interleukin ( IL ) -7, one of the most prominent cytokin in semen of healthy individuals, on HIV sexual transmission in an ex vivo system of human vaginal tissue. We show that IL-7 significantly enhanced the virus replication in vitro and in vivo infected tissues. In addition, the increased number of cells expressing the apoptotic marker APO2. 7 and the increase in the expression of anti-apoptotic protein B-cell lymphoma -2, as evidenced by staining for the nuclear factor Ki-67, may be relevant to the survival of CD4+ T cells at the initial stage of infection, promoting local expansion and dissemination.
Arboviruses infect arthropod vectors and induce antiviral responses that control their replication. The most prominent of these are the RNA interference ( RNAi ) pathways, which are characterized by the production of virus-derived small RNAs of 25–29 and 21 nucleotides, respectively. Virus-specific siRNAs are produced through the PIWI-interacting RNA ( piRNA ) pathway and are loaded into the exo-siRNA pathway effector protein Argonaute 2 ( Ago2 ). In Aedes aegypti cells, Zika virus ( ZIKV ) -specific small RNA were produced and loaded directly into a Piwi4 protein. However, the knockdown of this protein did not enhance virus replication, although it did increase the replication of an alphavirus-based reporter system. Our findings are important in understanding this specific virus–mosquito interaction and may support efforts to understand the rapid spread of the virus.
Sporotrichosis is a subcutaneous mycosis with a worldwide distribution that is currently notable for areas of especially high endemicity in Latin America. However, in Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil, this infection may also involve other sites beyond the skin, such as lymphatic vessels, muscles, fascia, cartilage, bones, and bones. Historically, Sporothrix schenckii has been attributed to a single species. In this study, we determined whether S. brasiliensis is associated with clinical manifestations of sporotricosis. We found a distinct clinical picture and therapeutic response in infections caused by the species, as compared to patients with the more severe and more often localized forms of the disease. Interestingly, infected patients overall required shorter durations of itraconazole ( median 16 weeks ) than the individuals treated with oral spp. These findings suggest that the different genomic species of SpOROTHrix species are linked to different clinical aspects of human disease, which is even more important to understand the clinical implications of these advances.
Transcriptional “dark matter” has emerged as a new technology that does not suffer from many of the limitations of array platforms such as cross-hybridization. In recent years established views of transcription have been challenged by the observation that a much larger portion of mammalian genomes is transcribed than can be accounted for by currently annotated genes, but the quantity and nature of these additional transcripts remains unclear. Here, we have used data from single- and paired-end RNA-Seq and tiling arrays to assess the quality and composition of transcripts in PolyA+ RNA from human and mouse tissues and cell lines. We find that the majority of transfrags are in introns, raising the possibility that they are fragments of pre-mRNAs. The chromosomal locations of most intergenic regions are near known genes and are associated with alternative cleavage and polyadenylation site usage, promoter-and terminator-associated transcripts, or new alternative exons; indeed, reads that bridge splice sites identified 4, 544 new exon, affecting 3, 454 genes.
The ability to design thermostable proteins offers enormous potential for the development of novel protein bioreagents. In this work, a combined computational and experimental method was developed to increase the Tm of the flavin mononucleotide based fluorescent protein Bacillus Subtilis YtvA LOV domain by 31 Celsius, thus extending its applicability in thermophilic systems. The adopted method is simple and effective, can be applied to other important proteins where other methods have difficulties, and therefore provides a new tool to improve protein thermmostability.
Lutzomyia sand flies are the predominant vectors of the protozoan disease leishmaniasis in the New World. Here we report the results of screening a tropical forest assemblage of sand fly species for infection by both Leishmania and a microbe that can potentially serve in vector population control, the cytoplasmically transmitted rickettsia, Wolbachia pipientis. We collected, sorted and then used DNA sequences to determine the diversity and probable phylogenetic relationships of Phlebotominae occurring in an understory of Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Sequence from CO1, a DNA barcoding gene, supported 18 morphology-based species determinations while revealing the presence of two possible “cryptic” species, one ( Lu. sp. nr vespertilionis ) within the Vespertilis group, and the other ( l. gomezi ) in a family of small ( 40S ) ribosomal subunits. Identical ITS-1 sequence was obtained from the L. triramula infection with Le. naiffi, sequence which was 93% similar to that found in GenBank, another species previously unknown in Panama, but recognized as a type of cutaneous lysis vectored broadly across northern and central South America.
Human Cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) establishes a latent reservoir in the haematopoietic cells of the bone marrow. It is likely that sporadic reactivation and shedding – although subclinical – is important for the sero-prevalence of HIV infection. However, it is also important to understand the molecular and physiological cues that are important in this event. In this study, we have addressed the role of ERK-MAPK and stress activated kinase ( MSK ) signalling in initiating the induction of latent infection in dendritic cells ( DCs ) of healthy individuals. Using interleukin-6 or LPS as a tool to initiate this process we show that phosphorylated CREB occupancy on the MIEP is an important factor. Furthermore, our data suggest that the activation of histone H3, a downstream target of this transcriptional activator, is a key event during the transition from a repressed ( latent ) to an active ( reactivated ) promoter.
The synthesis of ribosomes, the protein-manufacturing entities in cells, is fundamental to all of life. As such, it is surprising that defects are associated with a growing number of inherited disorders. We previously determined that the nucleolar protein NOL11 is essential for optimal pre-rRNA transcription and processing in human tissue culture cells. However, its role in the development of a multicellular organism remains unknown. Here, we reveal a critical function for nol11 in vertebrate craniofacial development, and we show that knockdown of Xenopus p53 rescues this skeletal phenotypic defect, but not the underlying ribOSome biogenesis defect. Excessive activation of this mechanism impairs cranial development. Together, our findings reveal an evolutionarily conserved requirement for Nol 11 in mammalian and amphibian development and provide further insight into the clinically important relationship between specific ribo-biogenesis factors and the control mechanisms that regulate CNC survival.
Leptospirosis is one of the most common zoonotic infectious diseases worldwide. The lack of an adequate laboratory test is a major barrier for diagnosis, especially during the early stages of illness, when antibiotic therapy is most effective. Therefore, there is an urgent need for an efficient diagnostic test for this life threatening disease. In order to identify new targets that could be used as diagnostic makers for leptopirology, we constructed a protein microarray chip comprising 61% of Leptira interrogans proteome and investigated the IgG response from 274 individuals, including 80 acute-phase, 80 convalescent- phase patients and 114 healthy control subjects from regions with endemic, high endemic and no endemic transmission. We found 16 antigens that can discriminate between acute cases and healthy individuals from a region with high and low endemic infection, and 18 that are recognized by sera from human patients, thus serving as proof-of-concept for the serodiagnostic antigen discovery approach.
Mosquito immunity studies have focused mainly on characterizing immune effector mechanisms elicited against parasites, bacteria and more recently, viruses. However, the mechanisms that trigger the immune response against entomopathogenic fungi remain poorly understood, despite their ubiquitous nature and their unique invasion route that bypasses the midgut epithelium, an important immune tissue and physical barrier. Here, we used the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae as a model to investigate the role of melanization in defense against the fungus Beauveria bassiana, using in vivo functional genetic analysis and confocal microscopy. We found that melanin eventually formed on all stages of fungal growth, including conidia, germ tubes and hyphae, except the single cell hyphal bodies. Nevertheless, this immune process rarely aborted the growth of any of these stages and the mycelium continued growing despite being melanized. Silencing TEP1 and CLIPA8, key positive regulators of Plasmodium and bacterial melanizing in A. drosophila, abolished completely melanatin formation on the germ tube but not on germinating cells. The detection of a layer of hemocytes surrounding the cell surface suggested that this response is cell-mediated while that of late stages is a humoral response dependent on both. In sum, our results suggest that the mosquito melanize response retards significantly the development of the insect's most potent bio-control activities against mosquitoes.
Dengue virus host factors ( DENV HFs ) that are essential for the completion of the infection cycle in the mosquito vector and vertebrate host represent potent targets for transmission blocking. In this study, we investigated the ability of four putative and non-inhibitor compounds, bafilomycin, mycophenolic acid, castanospermine, and deoxynojirimycin ( DNJ; inhibitor of glucosidase ), to block virus infection of adult A. aegypti mosquitoes. We administered these compounds by various treatment methods that included direct injection, ingestion by sugar feeding or blood feeding, silencing of target genes by RNA interference ( RNAi ). The route and timing of BAF and MPA administration and treatment after exposure to the virus diminished the antiviral effect of this compounds. This study provides proof-of-principle that chemical inhibition or RNAI-mediated depletion of these viral proteins can be used to suppress the transmission of mosquitoes, which may translate to a reduction in transmission.
Cell volume changes are ubiquitous in normal and pathological activity of the brain. Nevertheless, we know little of how cell volume affects neuronal dynamics. We here performed the first detailed study of cell swelling together with dynamic ion concentrations and oxygen supply into Hodgkin-Huxley type spiking dynamics, and we demonstrate the spontaneous transition between epileptic seizure and spreading depression states as the cell swells and contracts in response to changes in osmotic pressure. Our use of volume as an order parameter further revealed a dynamical definition for the experimentally described physiological ceiling that separates seizure from spread depression, as well as predicted a second ceiling in a depolarized state. These results provide novel insights into the neuroprotective role of glial K buffering against seizures.
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is a thermally dimorphic fungus that causes the most prevalent systemic mycosis that is geographically confined to Latin America. The pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1β, which is mainly derived from the activation of the cytoplasmic multiprotein complex inflammasome, is an essential host factor against opportunistic fungal infections. In this study, we found that murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells responded to P. brasilensis yeast cells infection in a spleen tyrosine kinase ( Syk ), caspase 1 and NOD-like receptor ( NLR ) family member NLRP3 dependent manner. Our results demonstrate that the NKTR-3 ( interleukin 1 receptor, type I ) is essential for host defense against this pathogen and plays an important role in the immune response.
Toxoplasma gondii, a common brain-tropic parasite, is capable of infecting most nucleated cells, including astrocytes and neurons, in vitro. Yet in vivo, the parasite is primarily found in neurons. In vitro data showing that interferon-γ-stimulated neurons are persistently infected, suggesting that neurons alone are not incidentally infected. Here we test this theory by using a novel model of parasite-mouse interactions that allows us to mark and track host cells that directly interact with parasites, even if the interaction is transient. Remarkably, we find that the most marked parenchymal CNS cells consistently make up the majority of the neurons throughout CNS infection. This predilection remains even in highly manipulated circumstances such as IFN depletion; infection with parasite resistant to the major mechanism by which murine parasites clear parasites; or when directly injecting parasites into the brain. Collectively, these findings, together with prior work, strongly suggest that neuronal are the primary target of Toxopasma.
Cell motility is a fundamental biological phenomenon that underlies many physiological processes in health and disease, including wound healing, embryogenesis, immune response, and metastatic spread of cancer cells. Mechanisms of the lamellipodial dynamics, such as growth and spreading of a flat actin network wrapped in plasma membrane and myosin-powered contraction of this network, are mechanical in nature. One model system, the fish epithelial keratocyte cell, contributed very prominently to the understanding of these mechanics, due to its size and streamlined motion. However, a number of important issues have not been adequately explored. In this paper, we resolve these issues by simulating numerically a minimal free-boundary model described in the next section. We find that 1 ) cells are stationary and move steadily along either straight or circular trajectories, 2 ) cell turning behavior is sensitive to conditions of force balance at the cell boundary, 3 ) motile behavior in conditions where short viscosity-adhesion lengths and fast protrusion cause an accumulation of cells in a small region, destabilizing the axial symmetry of moving cell.
Protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) networks represent biomolecules such as genes or proteins. These interactions could be of many different types, including functional, genetic, and physical interactions. Understanding these complex networks is a fundamental issue in systems biology. In this paper, we present a novel technique to assess the confidence levels of known interactions and thus for guiding future biological experiments. Our approach achieves specificity of 85% and sensitivity of 90%, respectively. We use it to assign confidence scores to physical protein–protein interactions in the human network downloaded from BioGRID. The data and Matlab code implementing the methods are freely available from the web site: http://www. kuchaev. com/Denoising.
Trinucleotide repeat expansions within non-coding regions of RNA cause pathogenesis in a number of human neurological and neurodegenerative diseases, including myotonic dystrophy type 1 ( DM1 ), fragile X-associate tremor and ataxia syndrome ( FXTAS ) and Huntington's disease-like 2 ( HDL2 ). It is now recognized, however, that more than 70% of genomic loci show evidence of transcription from both sense and anti-sense strands in the mammalian genome, raising the possibility that human trinotide expansion diseases may be comprised of pathogenic activities due both to a sense expanded-repeat transcript and to an anti–sense expanded (repeat ) transcript. We established a Drosophila model for DM 1 and tested the role of interactions between expanded CTG transcripts and expanded CAG repeat transcripts. These studies revealed dramatically enhanced toxicity in flies co-expressing the expanded TATA binding protein repeats in both fly and man. Expression of the two transcripts led to novel pathogenicity with the generation of dcr-2 and ago2-dependent 21-nt triplet repeat-derived siRNAs. This small RNAs targeted the expression of genes, such as Ataxin-1 and TATATA-binding protein ( TBP, which bear long repeats, and affected alternative splicing, respectively. Our findings indicate that the proliferation of double-stranded, long, repetitive CGA repeats may dramatically enhance the toxicity associated with human repeat expansion disease.
Soft rot disease is economically one of the most devastating bacterial diseases affecting plants worldwide. In this study, we present novel insights into the phylogeny and virulence of soft rot model Pectobacterium sp. SCC3193, which was isolated from a diseased potato stem in Finland in the early 1980s. Genomic approaches, including proteome and genome comparisons, revealed that P. wasabiae has been unnoticed but present in potato fields worldwide for a long time. The genomic approaches and in planta experiments identified features that separate the model strain from the rest of hard rot bacteria, such as the absence of a type III secretion system that contributes to the virulent lifestyle. These features were most likely acquired via horizontal gene transfer; these traits include a predicted benzoic acid/salicylic acid carboxyl methyltransferase of eukaryotic origin.
The mitochondrial protein repertoire varies depending on the cellular state. Protein component modifications caused by mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) depletion are related to a wide range of human diseases; however, little is known about how mt proteome changes under such dysfunctional states. In this study, we investigated the systemic alterations of mt DNA-depleted ( ρ0 ) mitochondria by using network analysis of gene expression data. By modularizing the quantified proteomics data into protein functional networks, systemic properties of mitochondrial dysfunction were analyzed. We discovered that up-regulated and down-regulated mitochondrial proteins were organized into two predominant subnetworks that exhibited distinct biological processes. The downregulated network modules are involved in typical mitochondrial functions, while upregulated proteins are responsible for mt-DNA repair and regulation, mt protein expression and transport. Furthermore, comparisons of proteomic and transcriptome data revealed that σ0 cells attempted to compensate for mitochondrial depletion by modulating the coordinated expression/transport of the mt proteins. Our results provide a framework for understanding how cells respond to mitochondrial dysfunctions.
The molecular machinery of life relies on complex multistep processes that involve numerous individual transitions, such as molecular association and dissociation steps, chemical reactions, and mechanical movements. The corresponding transition rates can be typically measured in vitro but not in vivo. Here, we develop a general method by which we can quantitatively compare the kinetics of such processes in different environments. We introduce the ‘kinetic distance’, i. e., a distance metric that allows the deduction of the in-vivo rates from their invitro values in a quantitative manner. In order to demonstrate the predictive power of our method and apply it to protein synthesis by ribosomes, the key process of gene expression.
The ages of pathogenic bacteria have been estimated as reflecting millions of years of evolution. Age estimates for bacteria are higher than those of viruses, many of which appeared a few hundred years ago, primarily because many bacterial estimates are based on a supposedly universal inter-species molecular clock rate, but that rate was calibrated using estimates of geological dates that are no longer accepted. We therefore estimated the short-term rates of mutation and recombination in Helicobacter pylori by sequencing an average of 39, 300 bp in 78 gene fragments from 97 isolates. The sequences were sampled at intervals of 0. 25 to 10. 2 years. They also included single strains from 29 individuals ( average age: 45 years ) from 10 families. Our estimates indicate that the mutation rate over millennia is 5–17-fold lower, partly due to the removal of non-synonymous mutations. Comparisons with the recent literature, however, show that these rates vary dramatically in different bacterial species and can span a range of several orders of magnitude.
Photoreception in the mammalian retina is not restricted to rods and cones but extends to a subset of retinal ganglion cells expressing the photopigment melanopsin ( mRGCs ). These cells are known to drive such reflex light responses as circadian photoentrainment and pupillomotor movements. By contrast, until now there has been no direct assessment of their contribution to conventional visual pathways. Here, we address this deficit by using new reporter lines. We show that the projection pattern of these neurons is much more extensive than previously thought and extends across the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus ( dLGN ), origin of thalamo-cortical projection neurons. Furthermore, using chromatic stimuli to isolate the neurons in mice with an intact visual system, our data establish melanoprotein as a significant source of sensory input to the cortex, providing unique irradiance information and allowing visual responses to be retained even in absence of rods+cones.
HIV-1 infection is associated with an early and profound depletion of mucosal memory CD4+ T cells, a population that plays an indispensable role in the regulation of isotype switching and transepithelial transport of antibodies. In this study, we addressed whether the accumulation of the loss of these memory cells results in altered humoral responses specific to microbial and food antigens encountered at intestinal surfaces. We present evidence of a significant increase in IgM levels and a decrease of IgG/IgM and IgA in intestinal secretions of antiretroviral therapy-treated HIV-infected individuals indicative of lack of help for class switch recombination. The presented findings indicate that reduced levels of microbiota-specific Ig proteins may be an important factor contributing to the translocation of microbial, bacterial, food, and yeast into the systemic compartment and contribute to chronic inflammation.
In biology any growing population eventually ends up saturating the carrying capacity of its environment determined e. g. by nutrient availability. The same is true for economies where finite pool of new customers and/or natural resources inevitably sets a limit on growth of companies. Population dynamics in saturated environments is often described by neutral “community drift” models. In this paper we introduce and model the saturated-state dynamics of populations exposed to episodic random collapses or extinctions. All species are assumed to share the same environment that ultimately sets the limit to their exponential growth. We show that diversity wave dynamics is robust with respect to variations in the rules of our model such as diffusion between multiple environments, species-specific growth and extinction rates, and bet-hedging strategies.
The chemotaxis system of Escherichia coli is one of the most thoroughly studied paradigms of simple behavior. Due to the significant competitive advantage conferred by chemical reactions and to high evolution rates in bacteria, the system is expected to be highly optimized. Bacteria follow gradients by performing temporal comparisons of chemoeffector concentrations along their runs, a strategy which is most efficient given their size and swimming speed. Concentration differences are detected by a sensory system and transmitted to modulate rotation of flagellar motors, decreasing the probability of a tumble and reorientation if the perceived concentration change during a run is positive. Such regulation of tumble probability is of itself sufficient to explain how bacteria drift up the gradient. Here we use computer simulations to predict existence of an additional mechanism of gradient navigation in E. coli. Based on an experimentally observed dependence of cell tumbling angle on the number of switching motor, we suggest that not only the Tumbling probability but also the degree of re orientation during an tumble depend on swimming direction. Although the difference in mean tumbles angles up and down is only few degrees, even such a small difference significantly improves the cellular drift velocity. We thus demonstrate a new level of evolutionary optimization of bacterial chemotsaxis, which arises from the switching of several switching motors and a resulting fine tuning of their angle.
Thymic epithelial cells ( TECs ) are essential for establishing central tolerance by expressing a diverse array of self-peptides that delete autoreactive thymocytes and/or divert them into the regulatory T cell lineage. Activation of the NFκB signaling pathway is indispensable for mTEC maturation and proliferation resulting in proper medullary region formation. Here we show that the Stat3 transgene also plays a key role in the development and homeostasis of MHCIIloCD80lo mTCs. Expression of a constitutively active STAT3 gene is required for MTCEC survival, but not for proliferation and may also play a role. In addition, the precisely contrasting outcomes imposed by enforcing or preventing the activation of stat3-mediated signaling in mMCs reveal that in addition to NFkB signaling, Stat2-dependent signals play an essential role of regulating mCEC cellularity and medulla region development.
Clostridium difficile is an anaerobic spore-forming bacterium that is a major cause of nosocomial diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis, a potentially lethal disease. The largest and most extensively studied set of small noncoding RNAs ( sRNAs ) acts by modulating the translation and/or stability of specific mRNA targets in response to changes in the environment. In this study, we used an in silico approach to identify 511 sRNA candidates in both intergenic and coding regions of the genome. This global approach identified 251 putative regulatory RNA candidates including 94 potential trans riboregulators, 91 cis-antisense RNA, and 66 riboswitches. Expression of 35 of these candidates was confirmed by gene-specific experimental approaches. Some of them may be involved in control of C. diffiophage-rich gut communities. Altogether, this first experimental genome-wide identification of regulatory RNas provides a firm basis for future RNome characterization and identifying of RNA-based regulation of gene expression in this emergent enteropathogen.
The liver-specific microRNA miR-122, which has essential roles in liver development and metabolism, is a key proviral factor for hepatitis C virus ( HCV ). Despite its crucial role in the liver and the life cycle, little is known about the molecular mechanism of miRNA expression regulation by infection. Here, we show that the HC virus core protein inhibits GLD-2, a non-canonical cytoplasmic poly ( A ) polymerase, by promoting its destabilization via the inhibition of its terminal mononucleotidyl transferase activity. We found that these single-nucleotide-tailed miRNAs display increased activity and stability over the 22-nt prototype miRs, and that their 3′-terminal extension is catalyzed by the unique terminal nucleotide transferases activity of the virus. Our results provide new insights into the regulation of viral replication and translation through the interaction between viruses and cellular mi RNAs.
Trypanosomes are transmitted by tsetse flies and cause disease in humans and livestock throughout sub-Saharan Africa. Although wildlife and cattle show evidence of clinical tolerance to the parasites, until now there has been no evidence for acquired immunity to natural infections. We discovered a distinct peak and decrease in age prevalence of T. brucei s. l. infection in wild African lions that is consistent with being driven by an exposure-dependent increase in cross-immunity following infections with the more genetically diverse subspecies of the parasite. The causative agent of human sleeping sickness disappears by 6 years of age apparently in response to cross infection with other species. These findings may suggest novel pathways for vaccinations against trypanomiasis despite the notoriously complex antigenic surface proteins in these parasites.
Coagulation, mediated by a family of serine proteases ( factors ) and a key group of blood cells ( platelets ), is directly relevant to human health and has been suggested by Somogyi and Greller to be an ideal candidate for in silico drug discovery. In this study, mathematical modeling and sensitivity analysis were used to explore the working hypothesis that mechanistic models of human cascades, despite model uncertainty, can be computationally screened for points of fragility, and that these sensitive mechanisms could serve as therapeutic targets. Simulated platelet activation and thrombin generation profiles in the presence and absence of natural anticoagulants were consistent with measured values, with a mean correlation of 0. 87 across all trials. Overall state sensitivity coefficients, which measure the robustness of a given mechanism, were calculated using a Monte Carlo strategy. The predicted robust mechanisms involved fluid and surface phase factor X/activated factor Y ( fX/FXa ) activity and the disassociation of the TF–FVIIa complex. Both in vitro and in vivo experimental evidence is reviewed supporting the prediction that fIX/FIXa activity is robust.
Phage therapy is the use of bacteriophages as antimicrobial agents for the control of pathogenic and other problem bacteria. It has previously been argued that successful application of phage therapies requires a good understanding of the non-linear kinetics of bacterial–phage interactions. Here we combine experimental and modelling approaches to make a detailed examination of such interactions for Campylobacter jejuni and a suitable virulent Phage in an in vitro system. We find that even an apparently simplistic model fits the data surprisingly well, and we confirm that the so-called inundation and proliferation thresholds are likely to be of considerable practical importance to phages therapy.
Schistosomiasis is a devastating disease caused by parasitic flatworms of the genus Schistomosoma. It affects over 260 million people worldwide especially in tropical and sub-tropical regions. The freshwater snail Biomphalaria glabrata acts as an obligate intermediate host for the parasite, which is the causative agent of intestinal schistoiasis in Africa and South America. This unique and long-standing host-parasite relationship presents an opportunity to study both the importance of conserved immunological features in novel immunology roles, as well as new immunologies adaptations that have arisen to combat a very specific type of challenge. While it is well supported that the snail immune response is important for protecting against infection, very few specific immune factors have been identified and even fewer are functionally characterized. Here, we provide the first functional report of a snail Toll-like receptor ( TLR ) that we demonstrate as playing an important role in the cellular immunity response of B. glabsia following challenge with S. mansoni. BgTLR was found to be very responsive in BS-90 snails, increasing 27 fold relative to β-actin ( non-immune control gene ) ; whereas expression in susceptible M-line Snails was not significantly increased. Knockdown of this protein was confirmed using targeted siRNA oligonucleotides and resulted in a significant alteration of resistant phenotype, yielding patent infections in 43% of those normally resistant controls.
Aedes mosquitoes severely affect the health and wellbeing of local communities by transmitting infectious pathogens, mainly arboviruses ( dengue, chikungunya, Zika, Ross River ) and parasites ( the filaria Wuchereria bancrofti ). In French Polynesia, Aedes aegypti and Ae. polynesiensis are the main vectors of dendritic cell disease and a secondary vector of Zika virus. A promising approach to quantify the human-vector contact relies on the detection and quantification of antibodies directed against mosquito salivary proteins. An ELISA test was developed to detect the presence of immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) in human populations exposed to these two mosquito species, through a cross-sectional study. The test revealed that 98% and 68% of individuals have developed IgGs directed to the bites of the two species in Tahiti and Moorea islands, respectively. This new immuno-epidemiological tool will enhance our understanding of people exposure to mosquito bites, facilitate the identification of areas where disease transmission risk is high and permit to evaluate the efficacy of novel vector control strategies in Pacific islands and other tropical settings.
Pathogenicity of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) has been attributed to its facile adaptation to the intracellular milieu of human macrophages. To explore this process, we asked whether adaptation also required interference with the metabolic machinery of the host cell. Temporal profiling of metabolic flux, in cells infected with differently virulent strains, confirmed that this was indeed the case. Subsequent analysis identified the core subset of host reactions that were targeted. This synthesis then provided an axis where both host- and pathogen-derived factors converged to define determinants of pathogenicicity. Consequently, whereas the requirement for survival sensitized TB susceptibility to glycemic status, mediation by the infecting strain also contributed towards the resulting pathology.
Meiosis generates haploid gametes from diploid cells by coupling a single round of replication with two successive chromosomes segregation events: meiosis I, in which homologous chromosomes segregate away from each other and Meiosis II, where sister chromatids are partitioned. To ensure proper segregation, physical linkages must be introduced between homogens by processes that occur during meiotic prophase. Homolog pairing, the assembly of the synaptonemal complex ( SC ), and crossover recombination are essential for proper chromosome segregation. ZHP-3 is a member of both the ZMM class of proteins, which are required for the commitment to crossover formation and synapsis. We show that the protein is highly dynamic and that it exhibits dynamic localization at a key transition point in the SC, localizing along the length of a crossover to form a compact, cruciform bivalent. This segregation defect results from an inability to properly remodel chromosomes in response to crossovers. In contrast to its S. cerevisiae counterpart, Zip3, this fusion protein promotes nearly wild-type levels of recombinination, consistent with a role for SUMO in this process.
Aedes albopictus is a tropical invasive species which in the last decades spread worldwide, also colonizing temperate regions of Europe and US, where it has become a public health concern due to its ability to transmit a large variety of arboviruses, as well as severe nuisance problems caused by its aggressive daytime outdoor biting behaviour. While several studies have been carried out in order to predict the potential limits of the species expansions based on eco-climatic parameters, few studies on the specific effects of these variables in shaping its micro-geographic abundance and dynamics. The present study investigated the effect of climatic, environmental, land-cover and anthropogenic variables on Ae. species abundance in metropolitan and sub-urban/rural sites in Rome ( Italy ), which was colonized in 1997 and is nowadays one the most infested metropolitan areas in Southern Europe. Results showed an association between highly anthropized habitats and high adult abundance, with “small green islands” corresponding to hot spots of abundance only, and a bimodal seasonal dynamics with a second peak peak in autumn in association with permissive temperatures.
Phthiocerol dimycocerosates ( DIM ) are major virulence factors of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ), in particular during the early step of infection when bacilli encounter their host macrophages. However, their cellular and molecular mechanisms of action remain unknown. We investigated the role of Dim in the receptor-dependent phagocytosis and the prevention of phagosomal acidification. The effects on the host cell envelope required a state of the membrane fluidity, as demonstrated by experiments conducted with cholesterol-depleting drugs that abolished the differences in cell wall envelope structure observed between wild-type and mutant strains. Furthermore, the insertion of a new lipid-pyrene probe in living cells demonstrated that the polarity of cell membrane hydrophobic core changed upon contact with the bacterium whereas the lateral diffusion of cholesterol was unaffected. Therefore, we propose that this modification might be used to control the intracellular invasion of host cells, by targeting the uptake rather than bacterial adhesion, thereby modifying its biophysical properties.
The brain is a complex system organized at multiple spatial scales, and the concerted interactions between these multiple scales of organization are probably crucial for the emergence of its computational power. For this reason, finding an appropriate mathematical description of the brain at the mesoscopic scale is of fundamental importance for unveiling its emergent properties. However, many interesting problems in neuroscience involve the study of networks composed of a few tens of neurons. Nonetheless, mathematical methods that correctly describe networks of small size are still rare and this prevents us to make progress in understanding neural dynamics at these intermediate scales. Here we develop a novel method to study the dynamics of arbitrarily small neural circuits, whose structure is schematized in Fig 1 and whose dynamics we would like to investigate mathematically. We numerically determine the global bifurcations of their neural activity with an approach that is largely analytically tractable. In more detail, we find that for strong inhibition these networks give rise to very complex dynamics, caused by the formation of multiple branching solutions of neural equations that emerge through spontaneous symmetry-breaking. The most important consequence of this phenomenon is the ability to regulate their degree of functional heterogeneity, which is thought to help reducing the detrimental effect of noise correlations on cortical information processing.
Diverse genetic targets and amplification methods have been utilized for the detection, identification and quantification of Leishmania in lesions and other tissues of dermal leishmaniasis. However, the persistence of parasites in extralesional tissues and the possibility of their persistence following parasite death has raised questions concerning the interpretation of its amplification from blood and apparently healthy tissues as indicative of viability and a diagnostic target for diverse microbial infections. In this study, detection of 7SLRNA gene copies and transcripts in kDNA positive samples confirmed the specificity of 5/19 ( 68% ) monocyte samples, 4/12 ( 42%, tonsil swabs, and normal skin aspirates, as well as the applicability of this target to the diagnosis of parasite viability in diverse tissue samples.
In metazoans, each cell type follows a characteristic, spatio-temporally regulated DNA replication program. Histone modifications and chromatin binding proteins ( CBPs ) are fundamental for a faithful progression and completion of this process. However, no individual HM is strictly indispensable for origin function, suggesting that HMs may act combinatorially in analogy to the histone code hypothesis for transcriptional regulation. In contrast to gene expression however, the relationship between combinations of DNA features and replication timing has not yet been demonstrated. Here, by exploiting a comprehensive data collection consisting of 95 CBP and HMPs, we investigated their potential for the prediction of the timing of replication in Drosophila using quantitative statistical models. We found that while the two most common histones exhibit moderate predictive power for replication, pairwise interactions between these features lead to accurate predictions genome-wide. Independent feature importance and model analyses led us to derive a simplified, biologically interpretable model and revealed cell-type independent combinations, potentially impacting origin firing and likely to be conserved across species.
Dengue fever, caused by the flavivirus Dengue virus ( DENV ), is the most important and widespread arthropod-borne viral disease, causing at least 25, 000 deaths annually, with the largest disease burden in tropical and subtropical regions. In this study, we used a combination of molecular clock, coalescent and discrete phylogeographic models to reconstruct the past movements of DENv serotypes 1 through 3 on a global scale, focusing on South American countries. We also use 2D random-walk models that consider viral dispersal in continuous space to estimate the impact of epidemiological and ecological determinants of the spread in Brazil.
Understanding how neural populations encode sensory information thereby leading to perception and behavior remains an important problem in neuroscience. When investigating the neural code, one must take into account the fact that neural activities are not independent but are actually correlated with one another. Such correlations are seen ubiquitously and have a strong impact on neural coding. Here we investigated how differences in the antagonistic center-surround receptive field ( RF ) organization across three parallel sensory maps influence correlations between the activities of electrosensory pyramidal neurons. Using a simple yet accurate phenomenological model of receptor afferent activity, we found that very different combinations of RF center size and overlap give rise to similar correlations because of similar relative amounts of positively and negatively correlated inputs. Importantly, our model thus predicts that the similar levels of correlations observed experimentally arise because cells receive similar responses, despite different RF centers.
Over repeat presentations of the same stimulus, sensory neurons show variable responses. This “noise” is typically correlated between pairs of cells, and a question with rich history in neuroscience is how these noise correlations impact the population's ability to encode the stimulus. Here, we consider a very general setting for population coding, investigating how information varies as a function of noise correlation. We show that a diverse set of correlations can improve coding performance. Many of these violate the SR, as do experimentally observed correlations. There is structure to this diversity: we prove that the optimal correlation structures must lie on boundaries of one possible set.
Chronic coinfections of Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa frequently fail to respond to antibiotic treatment, leading to significant patient morbidity and mortality. Currently, the impact of interspecies interaction on the pathogenicity and antibiotic susceptibility of individual organisms remains poorly understood. In this study, we utilize a panel of clinical isolates to demonstrate that the presence of the bactericidal activity of S. aurus in a variable, strain-dependent manner and further identify 3 independent interactions responsible for antagonizing or potentiating antibiotic activity. We find that P. aerigine LasA endopeptidase potentiates lysis by vancomycin, rhamnolipids facilitate proton-motive force-independent tobramymcin uptake, and 2-heptyl-4-hydroxyquinoline N-oxide ( HQNO ) induces multidrug tolerance through respiratory inhibition and reduction of cellular ATP. Importantly, each of these factors is highly strain dependent and corresponds to the capacity of each isolate to alter the bacterial susceptibility to killing by other microorganisms in the infection environment. Consideration of such interactions will improve the treatment of polymicrobial infections.
Thrombocytopenia and platelet dysfunction are commonly observed in patients with dengue virus ( DENV ) infection and may contribute to complications such as bleeding and plasma leakage. In two observational studies in Bandung and Jepara, Indonesia, we show that the binding of the coagulation protein von Willebrand factor ( VWF ) to platelets and removal of sialic acid ( desialylation ) are two well-known mechanisms of platel clearance, but whether these conditions also contributes to throm boviral infection is unknown. We also show for the first time that a novel neuraminidase inhibitor, oseltamivir, is able to reduce the levels of VWf in circulating plasma. Our data demonstrate that excessive binding to the glycoprotein 1b ( GPIbα; ‘VWF receptor’ ) is associated with increased plasma plasma levels, and that this effect is mediated by the expression of SNA and Maackia amurensis lectin II ( MAL-II ), which are both known to be involved in the regulation of endothelial integrity.
A “bidirectional gene pair” comprises two adjacent genes whose transcription start sites are neighboring and directed away from each other. These promoters are often associated with genes that function in DNA repair, with the potential to participate in the development of cancer. No connection between these gene pairs and cancer has been previously investigated. Using the database of spliced-expressed sequence tags ( ESTs ), we identified the most complete collection of human transcripts under the control of bidirectionally promoters. A rigorous screen of EST data identified new genes regulated by these promoters, many of which functioned as alternative promoters or regulated novel transcripts. We show a highly significant enrichment of this promoter structure in genes implicated in somatic cancer, including breast and ovarian cancers. Interpreting the regulation of genes involved in co-expression networks will be an important step toward defining molecular events that may contribute to disease.
Sex is a universal feature of eukaryotic organisms, yet tremendous variation in sex determination mechanisms exists even among closely related species, or among individuals within a species. In several taxa where sex is established at fertilization by genetic factors, such as in many vertebrates and insects, an entire chromosome co-segregates with the sex determining genes ( sex chromosomes ), but superficially similar karyotypes may conceal the true extent of sex chromosome variation. Here, we use whole-genome analysis in 37 fly species belonging to 22 different families of Diptera, and uncover tremendous hidden diversity in the presence and identity of different sex-chromosomes. We find that dosage compensation has evolved multiple times in flies, consistently through up-regulation of the single X in males. However, X chromosomes generally show a deficiency of genes with male-biased expression. These species thus provide a rich resource to study sex genome biology in a comparative manner.
Zika virus ( ZIKV ) is an emerging mosquito-borne pathogen that is linked to the development of severe fetal abnormalities that include spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, hydranencephaly, and placental insufficiency that may cause intrauterine growth restriction. In this study, we investigated maternal blood samples from six mothers who gave birth to babies with microcephalic abnormalities in Hawaii between 2009 and 2012. We found evidence of a trend toward significance with the presence of zikaV IgM and IgG antibodies in the mothers’ blood. These data provide further evidence that Zika virus is associated with fetal or neonatal neurological complications as suggested by other investigators.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a necrotizing skin disease which has been reported in over thirty countries. The mode of transmission to humans is still not clear although a few hypotheses have been advanced and tested. In this study, we source-tracked human BU infections to 10 water bodies, in four BU endemic communities in Ghana. We used VNTR as an identifying tool to identify human isolates, and those from 14 BU patients within the same study area. Length polymorphism was confirmed with sequencing. MU was present in the 3 different types of water body, but significantly higher in biofilm samples. Four MU genotypes, designated W, X, Y and Z, were typed in both human and environmental samples, suggesting possible routes of MU infections from the environment.
Alien species are a major component of human-induced environmental change. Variation in the numbers of alien species found in different areas is likely to depend on a combination of anthropogenic and environmental factors, with human activities affecting the number of species introduced to new locations, and when they are able to persist there. However, global spatial and temporal variation in these drivers is poorly understood. Here, we analyse an extensive new database of bird introductions to explore what determines the global distribution of native species richness for an entire taxonomic class. We show that the locations of origin and introduction of the most introduced species were initially driven largely by European ( mainly British ) colonialism, but are now driven in part by increasing economic activity. Our results demonstrate that, globally, alien bird species diversity is currently highest at midlatitudes and is strongly determined by both human and biotic factors. Nevertheless, environmental drivers are also important.
The nucleolus is the largest visible structure in the mammalian cell nucleus and the site of ribosome biogenesis. As such, its activity is a key determinant of a cell's capacity to grow and proliferate, and its size and morphology are used as clinical markers of cancer and tumour suppression. We previously showed that upstream Binding Factor ( UBF ), a unique multi-HMGB-box protein first identified as a co-factor in RNA polymerase I ( RPI/PolI ) transcription, is essential for embryo development beyond morula. Using gene deletion in mouse, we now show that the mouse Ubf gene is indeed required for the transcription of the rRNA genes and that it defines the active chromatin conformation of both gene and enhancer sequences. In contrast to canonical histone H1, binding of H3K9me3 and H2A. Z is also dependent on the uBF, strongly suggesting that its function is to define or maintain a pool of potentially active genes. Unexpectedly, inactivation of rRNA gene activity does not coordinate global gene expression, suggesting a transition from an active resting state, but not heterochromatinization. These somatic nucleolar precursor bodies are spatially distinct from chromosomal rDNA loci ( NORs ).
The concept of morphogens—secreted molecules that spread from their source of synthesis and activate signaling in distant cells to direct tissue patterning—was proposed more than a century ago. However, evidence that resolved this controversy was not provided until the mid-1990’s, and was based on landmark studies in Drosophila on the evolutionarily conserved signaling pathways Wingless/Wnt and Decapentaplegic/BMP. Herein, we tested this foundational principle in the adult intestine, where Wg secretion and movement coincide with all major boundaries between compartments. We find that the critical roles of Wing-less during adult intestinal development, which include regulation of target gene activation, boundary formation, stem cell proliferation, epithelial cell fate specification, muscle differentiation, gut folding and signaling crosstalk with the Wnt pathway, are all disrupted by tethering. These findings provide new evidence to support the requirement for the direct, long-range action of W-based signaling, with relevance for animal development and tissue homeostasis.
Group A streptococcus ( GAS ) is a globally significant human pathogen, responsible for 600, 000 cases of invasive infection each year, approximately 25% of which are fatal. A key process in invasive disease is the ability to accumulate plasmin at the cell surface, however the role of host activators in this process is poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate for the first time that the urokinase-type ( uPA ) contributes to the recruitment and subsequent disease initiation in vivo using a mouse model of infection. In the absence of a source of the host-derived upeptokinase ( Ska ), the presence of upa was sufficient to promote the accumulation of cell-surface plasmmin in human plasma. The observed decrease in virulence was found to correlate directly with an increase in bacterial dissemination. These findings have significant implications for our understanding of gAS pathogenesis, and research aimed at therapeutic targeting of cellular surface protein activation is warranted.
The H. pylori cag pathogenicity island encodes components of a type IV secretion system ( T4SS ) that translocates the bacterial oncoprotein CagA into gastric epithelial cells and causes numerous cellular alterations, including cytoskeletal alterations and disruption of cellular junctions, and altered cellular adhesion and polarity. Here, we utilized a mass spectrometry-based approach to reveal co-purification of three proteins that are required for the translocation of the viral oncag Aag into host cells. These proteins are encoded by contiguous genes and are detectable on bacterial surface. Scanning electron microscopy analysis reveals that these proteins interact with the host receptor α5β1 integrin to form pilus dimensions. The C-terminal hexapeptide motif is present in the CAG proteins, which are essential for piluption and IL-8 induction. This study highlights the important role played by unique constituents of this unique bacterial species.
Bovine tuberculosis ( bTB ) is a chronic disease of cattle caused by Mycobacterium bovis, a member of the tuberculosis complex group of bacteria. Vaccination of cows might offer a long-term solution for controlling the disease and priority has been given to the development of a cattle vaccine. Identification of biomarkers in tuberculosis research remains elusive and the goal is to identify host correlates of protection that could help to facilitate vaccine development. We hypothesized that by studying global gene expression we could identify in vitro predictors and correlate with protection. Calves were vaccinated or with a heterologous BCG prime adenovirally vectored subunit boosting protocol. Protective efficacy was determined after M. tuberculosis challenge. The expression of these candidate genes identified by RNA-seq was evaluated by RT-qPCR in an independent set of PBMC samples from vaccinated and unvaccinated calves. This experiment confirmed the importance of IL-22 as predictor of vaccine efficacy.
Microtubule organizing centers ( ncMTOCs ) are found in most differentiated cells, but the molecular basis for these functions has been elusive. We optimized a tissue-specific degradation system to test the role of the essential centrosomal microtubulin ring complex ( γ-TuRC ) and AIR-1/Aurora A at the apicobasal axis, where they both localize in Caenorhabditis elegans embryonic intestinal epithelial cells. Surprisingly, we find that the core component GIP-2/GCP3 is required to recruit other known proteins for their function, including MZT, ZYG-9/ch-TOG, PTRN-3/CAMSAP, and NOCA- 1/Ninein. However, loss of these proteins removed a subset of dynamic EBP-4/EB1–marked micromicrotubules, which grew faster. Together, these results suggest that different cells use discrete proteins to coordinate their cell functions.
We compared 11 different widely-used approaches to phasing human genomes using the publicly available ‘Genome-In-A-Bottle’ ( GIAB ) phased version of the NA12878 genome as a gold standard. Our results suggest that a hybrid or combined approach that leverages: 1. population-based approaches, 2. either genome-wide sequencing read data or parental genotype, and 3. a large reference panel of variant and haplotype frequencies, provides a fast and efficient way to produce highly accurate phase-resolved individual genomes.
Type-III protein secretion systems are utilized by gram-negative pathogens to secrete building blocks of the bacterial flagellum, virulence effectors from the cytoplasm into host cells, and structural subunits of a needle complex. The type-II secretion apparatus utilizes both the energy of proton motive force and ATP hydrolysis to energize substrate unfolding and translocation. In the present work, we demonstrate that the Salmonella pathogenicity island 1 virulent-associated type III ATPase is required for secretion by the isolation and characterization of spontaneous suppressor mutants assembled in a ΔfliHI genetic background. Our data support a role for ATPases in enhancing secretion efficiency under limited secretion substrate concentrations.
Bistability plays a central role in the gene regulatory networks ( GRNs ) controlling many essential biological functions, including cellular differentiation and cell cycle control. However, establishing the network topologies that can exhibit bistable networks remains a challenge, in part due to the exceedingly large variety of GRN that exist for even a small number of components. We begin to address this problem by employing chemical reaction network theory ( CRNT ) in a comprehensive in silico survey to determine the capacity of more than 40, 000 simple networks that are formed by two transcription factor-coding genes and their associated proteins ( assuming only the most elementary biochemical processes ). Using experimental protein-protein interaction and gene expression data from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we demonstrate how a general theoretical survey of this kind has unique predictive power to identify network modules in organisms that have not been fully explored from a functional genomics perspective.
Orofacial clefting is amongst the most common birth defects, with both genetic and environmental components. Although numerous studies have been undertaken to investigate the complexities of the genetic etiology of this heterogeneous condition, this factor remains incompletely understood. In the current study, we describe mutations in the HYAL2 gene as a cause of syndromic orofoam clefts in humans and mice, and describe the first molecular explanation for cor triatriatum sinister in mice. Our findings highlight the fundamental importance of hyaluronan turnover for normal human and mouse development.
In mammals, auditory hair cells do not regenerate and therefore stereocilia bundles endure sound-induced deflections throughout an organism's life. However, the molecular mechanisms of this regenerative process are unknown. Current models postulate that tip links are formed by a Ca2+-dependent heteromeric interaction between PCDH15 at the lower end of the link and cadherin 23 ( CDH23 ), which are both required for normal hearing and vision. We developed a novel implementation of backscatter electron scanning microscopy to visualize simultaneously immuno-gold particles and stem cells, both of only a few nanometers in diameter. Using an ultra-thin palladium coating, we show that functional, mechanotransduction-mediating tip link links have at least two molecular compositions. During regeneration, shorter tips containing nearly equal amounts of PC DH15 are first, followed by shorter ones that are second. These short, protein-rich tips are re-established later, concomitant with complete recovery of adaptation. Thus, our findings provide a molecular mechanism for regeneration and maintenance of mechanosensory function in postmitotic auditory follicles.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most prevalent arbovirus in the tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world, causing a spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from mild fever ( DF ) to more life threatening forms ( DHF ). Although numerous efforts have been made to understand the molecular mechanisms that trigger the transition from DF to the potentially lethal form, the mechanisms involved are not fully understood. We performed a mass spectrometry-based metabolomic profiling of sera from adult DF and DH patients at the critical and recovery phases of infection. There were 29 differentially expressed metabolites identified between DF/DHF. These include bile acids, purines, acylcarnitines and phospholipids, and amino acids. In the recovery phase, a few metabolites were still significantly higher or lower among DF patients, including chenodeoxyglycocholic acid, which was observed to be 1. 5 fold lower. This could result in decreased capacity of endogenous antioxidant defense and elevated oxidative stress among patients.
The metabolic pathway of purine nucleotides in parasitic protozoa is a potent drug target for treatment of parasitemia. Guanosine 5’-monophosphate reductase ( GMPR ), which catalyzes the reductive deamination of guanosines from their precursors in the presence of NADPH, plays an important role in this interconversion to maintain the intracellular balance of their concentration. However, only a few studies have been reported at present. Herein, we identified the recombinant protein of the Tb927. 5. 2080 gene, and identified its subcellular localization in T. brucei bloodstream forms. We compared the enzymatic kinetics and structures and found that ribavirin 5'-monolines was a inhibitor of trypanosomiasis but not of its mammalian counterparts.
Sodium channel blockers are used to control electrical excitability in cells as a treatment for epileptic seizures and cardiac arrhythmia, and to provide short term control of pain. Developing the next generation of drugs that can selectively target one of the nine types of voltage-gated sodium channel expressed in the body requires a much better understanding of how current channels work. Here we use molecular dynamics simulations to elucidate the position at which sodium channels bind to the protein, as well as to understand how these drugs find their way into resting channels. We show that both drugs have two likely binding sites in a pore characterised by nonspecific, hydrophobic interactions: one just above the activation gate and one at the entrance to a lateral lipid filled fenestration. Our simulations highlight the importance of a number of residues in directing drugs into and through the channel.
Myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 ( MyD88 ) -mediated signaling downstream of Toll-like receptors and the IL-1 receptor family is critically involved in the induction of protective host responses upon infections with C. rodentium. Although it is well established that CD11c+ cells and T cells are highly susceptible to a wide range of bacterial infections, the cell type-specific contribution of Myd88 in protecting the host against intestinal bacterial infection is only poorly understood. In this study, we use a novel mouse model that allows the expression of functional My D88 to activate intestinal dendritic cells ( DC ) and to induce the early group 3 innate lymphoid cell ( ILC3 ) response as well as the development of colonic Th17/Th1 cells in response to infection with the intestinal pathogen. Importantly, our experiments also demonstrate a critical role of IEC-intrinsic signaling for maintaining the epithelial barrier during infection.
The Onchocerca volvulus-specific antigen Ov16 is one of the recommended tools for determining whether transmission is interrupted and mass treatment can stop. For different transmission settings, the relationship between post-MDA Ov 16 antibody prevalence in children ( measured 1 year after the last round of ivermectin mass drug administration ( MDA ) ) and the mf prevalence is explored through mathematical modelling. Seroconversion was assumed to be triggered by the first worm establishing in the host, with seroconversions occurring either before maturation or only after Mf production. We show that the association between either of these indicators is not influenced much by assumed treatment coverage levels, but was found to depend on baseline endemicity levels and assumptions regarding the trigger of infection, and diagnostic test characteristics ( sensitivity and specificity ). Our study demonstrates that this endpoint will be dependent on the prevalence of infected individuals in a dynamic human population, which should be taken into account in guidelines for defining when to stop mDA.
Prion populations exhibit features of Darwinian evolution in that they are subject to “mutations” that give rise to heterogeneity and allow selective amplification of prions in different environments. We have reported that during propagation mutation-like processes occur at the conformational level. For example, when swainsonine-sensitive 22L prion were propagated in PK1 cells in the presence of the drug, drug-resistant variants emerged. This was not too surprising that the prionic population which had become swa sensitive after propagation in cells could revert to drug resistance. Once established, they could be passaged indefinitely in an inhibitory drug without losing their dependence. These adaptations are most likely due to conformation changes of abnormal PrP.
All biological evolution takes place in a space of possible genotypes and their phenotypes. The structure of this space defines the evolutionary potential and limitations of an evolving system. Metabolism is one of the most ancient and fundamental evolving systems, sustaining life by extracting energy from extracellular nutrients. Here, we study metabolism’s potential for innovation by analyzing an exhaustive genotype-phenotype map for a set of 1015 metabolisms that encodes all possible subsets of 51 reactions in central carbon metabolism. We find that the neighborhoods of metabolites with the same phenotype, their absolute numbers exceed 109, for some phenotypic changes. In contrast, the genotypal networks of different metabolites often abut each other in the space. These observations suggest that metabolic complexity is conducive to metabolic innovation.
Triatoma dimidiata is one of the broadest distributed triatomine species complexes transmitting Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease. This vector complex is found in a variety of domestic, peri-urban and sylvatic habitats. In the wild, it has been found mainly in tropical, perennial, and deciduous forest, caves, grasslands and modified habitats, but also in fragmented landscapes. The present study analyzes the population genetics of three main haplogroups from human domestic habitats at community, sub-regional ( based on demographics, ecological and anthropic components ), regional ( Berriozábal county, Tuxtepec and Isthmus region of Oaxaca, Veracruz, San Luis Potosí ) and across the Mexican Neotropical realm of North, Central and South America. Differential parasite prevalence and Discrete Typing Unit ( DTU ) specificity for individuals provide evidence for differential vector capacity within the complex in Mexico.
Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome ( HFRS ) is a rodent-borne infectious disease caused mainly by two hantaviruses in China: Hantaan virus and Seoul virus. Environmental factors can significantly affect the risk of contracting the infection, primarily through their effects on rodent population dynamics and human-rodent contact. Therefore, constructing reliable models with which to quantify the relationships among different environmental factors, rodent populations, and the occurrences of human disease is necessary to help to prevent and control HRS epidemics.
Costello syndrome ( CS ) is a congenital disease characterized by postnatal growth retardation, short stature, tumor predisposition, developmental delay, and abnormalities of the heart ( cardiomyopathy ), skin and skeletal muscles. HRAS p. Gly12Val mutations have the highest transforming activity, are very frequent in cancers, but very rare in CS, where they are reported to cause a severe, early lethal, phenotype. We identified an unusual, new germline mutation, c. 35_36GC>TG, in a 12-year-old boy with attenuated CS. Analysis of his DNA from multiple tissues showed high levels of exon 2 skipping. Using wild type and mutant HR AS minigenes, we confirmed that this mutation is caused by a weak 3’ splice site, which makes the binding of splicing stimulatory proteins, like SRSF2, to the critical ESE. Because the majority of cancer- and CS- causing mutations are located here, they affect spliced differently. Therefore, our results also demonstrate that the phenotype in both CS and somatic cancers is not only determined by the different transforming potentials of mutant proteins and the efficiency of their inclusion into mRNA.
N6-methyladenosine ( m6A ) RNA methylation is the most abundant modification on mRNAs and plays important roles in various biological processes. In the cerebellum, Mettl3 is catalyzed by a methyltransferase complex, which is a key factor. However, the in vivo functions of METTL3 and m 6A modification in mammalian development remain unclear. Here, we show that specific inactivation of N6m3 in mouse nervous system causes severe developmental defects in the brain. We also found that the loss of this modification leads to drastically enhanced apoptosis of newborn cerebular granule cells ( CGCs ) and a series of ataxia-like movement disorders. Our findings reveal a critical role of the METT3-mediated m5A in modulating the development of mammalian brain development and neurogenesis.
Transcription factors are proteins that regulate gene expression by binding to cis-regulatory sequences such as promoters and enhancers. In embryonic stem ( ES ) cells, binding of the transcription factors OCT4, SOX2 and NANOG is essential to maintain the pluripotent state both in mouse and human ES cells. We show that combinatorial binding is strongly associated with co-localization of transcriptional coactivator Mediator, H3K27ac and increased expression of nearby genes in early embryonic development. Our analysis suggests that the combination of binding sites plays an important role during the evolution of gene regulatory elements, whereas “gene regulatory hotspots” which are bound by multiple factors and active in multiple tissues throughout early development are under stronger evolutionary constraints.
A reciprocal translocation involving chromosomes 8 and 21 generates the AML1/ETO oncogenic transcription factor that initiates acute myeloid leukemia by recruiting co-repressor complexes to DNA. The fusion protein preferentially binds to regions that are occupied by its wild-type counterpart. However, transcriptional regulation determined by the fusion proteins probably relies on a more complex network, since it has been shown to interact with a number of other transcription factors, in particular E-proteins, and may therefore target other sites. In this study, we present a comprehensive analysis of the DNA binding pattern of AMLO1 and HEB through chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP-chip ) and the expression profiling. We show that the plasma membrane-binding protein of fusion-encoded protein 1 ( ETO ), which encodes a protein that is required for hematopoietic cells to differentiate, is a crucial regulator of transcription. Furthermore, the level of EB protein was increased in both primary cells and cell lines expressing the fused protein. Our results suggest a major role for the functional interaction of a fusion factor, AM L1, with the regulatory function of this fusion gene.
Leishmaniasis ( VL ), caused by Leishmania donovani in the Indian subcontinent, can be fatal if not treated at the appropriate time. Histone post-translational modifications ( PTMs ) impact nuclear processes either by generally altering chromatin structure to make it more permissive/repressive to incoming transcription/replication/repair machinery, or by serving as flags recognized by specific proteins that modulate the various DNA-related processes. Due to the wide range of cellular processes they regulate the functional roles of histones have been extensively investigated. Trypanosomatids include several protozoan pathogens that cause communicable diseases such as sleeping sickness, Chagas disease, and various forms of HIV. The study of the organism’s cellular biology remains an area of continued interest.
Inferring on others' ( potentially time-varying ) intentions is a fundamental problem during many social transactions. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we applied computational modeling to behavioral data from an economic game in which 16 pairs of volunteers ( randomly assigned to “player” or ‘adviser’ roles ) interacted. The player performed a probabilistic reinforcement learning task, receiving information about a binary lottery from a visual pie chart, and receiving an additional recommendation. Critically, the game was structured such that the adviser's incentives to provide helpful or misleading information varied in time. Using a meta-Bayesian modeling framework we found that players' behavior was best explained by the deployment of hierarchical learning: they inferred upon the volatility of the advisers' intentions in order to optimize their predictions about the validity of their advice. Beyond learning, volatility estimates also affected the trial-by-trial variability of decisions: participants were more likely to rely on their estimates of advice accuracy for making choices when they believed that their advisers were presently stable. Our Bayesian framework presented here can quantify individual differences in these mechanisms from simple behavioral readouts and may prove useful in future clinical studies of maladaptive social cognition.
Scrub typhus is a mite-borne infectious disease that is endemic in a triangular geographic region containing the Indian subcontinent, northern Australia and the Far East. In non-endemic area it is one of the most important febrile diseases affecting returning travelers. Clinical clues that lead to a diagnosis include maculopapular skin rash, regional lymphadenopathy, and eschar. The presence of characteristic esch varies according to the geographical region. If a disease flows into a densely populated urban area and attains its endemicity, it will have a significant impact in terms of disease burden and differential diagnosis in clinical practices.
RNA interference ( RNAi ) –related pathways affect gene activity by sequence-specific recruitment of Ago proteins to mRNA target molecules. The sequence specificity of this process stems from small RNA ( sRNA ) co-factors bound by the Ago protein. Stability of sRNAs in some pathways is in part regulated by Hen1-mediated methylation of their 3′ ends. Here we describe the effects of the Caenorhabditis elegans HEN1 RNA–methyl-transferase homolog, HENN-1, on the two pathways in this nematode. Surprisingly, in the germline, stability of 21U RNAs is only mildly affected by loss of Methylation; and introduction of artificial 21 U target RNA does not further destabilize non-methylated 21Us. In contrast, most 26G RNA levels display reduced stability, and respond to loss by displaying increased 3-uridylation frequencies. Our data suggest that, apart from direct effects on global gene expression, the most effects are indirect. These studies further refine our understanding of endogenous RNA interference pathways and the roles for Hen-like enzymes in these pathways.
Glycosylation is a post-translational modification that enriches protein complexity and function, and is associated with a wide range of diseases, including cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular, congenital, immunological and infectious disorders. Enzymes that are involved in glyco-phenotypes may therefore be promising targets for therapy. Variations in glycans significantly affect protein function; but, contrary to polypeptides, they are not directly encoded by genes and the complex processes that regulate their assembly are poorly understood. A novel approach combining genome-wide association and high-throughput glycomics analysis of 2, 705 individuals in three population cohorts showed that common variants in the Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 1α ( HNF1α ) and fucosyltransferase genes FUT6 and FU8 influence N-glycan levels in human plasma. This mechanism has implications for the regulation of immunity, embryonic development, protein folding, as well as for our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying cancers, coronary heart disease, metabolic and inflammatory disorders and cancer.
Centromeres are important features of the genome that connect chromosomes to spindles. The connection occurs through a large multifunctional kinetochore complex that binds DNA, binds microtubules, and regulates the timing of anaphase. Centromere domains are marked by a histone H3 variant known as CENH3, which has received intensive scrutiny as an important epigenetic identifier of centromere domains. In species such as maize, the available data suggest that centromeric DNA does not function to recruit proteins that localize and move chromosomes on the spindle. Here we use a combination of in vitro and in vivo studies to show that the DNA-binding reaction is exquisitely sensitive to single-stranded RNA. Long nucleic acids strongly promote the binding of DNA binding protein C to DNA and the types of RNAs that stabilize DNA bound match in size and character the RNA present on kineteochores. Removal or replacement of a binding module with HIV integrase binding domain causes a partial delocalization of this protein. This study provides a biochemical mechanism for the involvement of RNA in the recruitment of CenPC to the inner-genome.
The placenta, situated at the maternal-fetal interface, is a key organ for fetal growth and development; it performs a variety of functions including controlling fetal access to nutrients, hormone production, and mitigation of adverse effects from the environment. In the USA, 1 in 3 children is afflicted with overweight or obesity. The increasing prevalence of CO is also associated with diseases later in life including T2D, hypertension, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, obstructive sleep apnea and dyslipidemia. We report the first study to use comprehensive transcriptome and eQTL data to mine GWAS results and shed light on disease pathways, as it can identify true disease causal variants ( as opposed to merely undirected associations ) with down-stream genes in a tissue-specific manner.
Post Kala-azar Dermal Leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) is a chronic but not life-threatening disease; patients generally do not demand treatment, deserve much more attention because it is highly relevant in the context of the elimination programme. There is no standard guideline for diagnosis and treatment. A species-specific PCR on slit skin smear demonstrated a sensitivity of 93. 8%, but it has not been applied for routine diagnostic purpose. The study was conducted to determine the actual disease burden in an endemic area of Malda district, West Bengal. Among three diagnostic tools used, PCR was highly sensitive ( 88. 46% ) for case confirmation. In majority of cases skin lesions persisted after treatment completion which gradually disappeared during 6–12 months post treatment period. Reappearance of lesions noted in two cases after 1. 5 years of miltefosine treatment was noted. Such surveys are required in other endemic areas to attain the ultimate goal of elimination.
Bacteria have evolved various inducible genetic programs to face many types of stress that challenge their growth and survival. Competence is one such program. It enables genetic transformation, a major horizontal gene transfer process. In liquid cultures of Streptococcus pneumoniae, competence development is synchronized within the whole cell population. This collective behavior is known to depend on an exported signaling peptide ( CSP ), whose action generates a positive feedback loop. However, it is unclear how this competence-dependent population switch is coordinated. Here, we have found that competence shift in the population relies on a self-activated cell fraction that arises via a cell-cell-contact sensing mechanism. We demonstrate that the competence initiator cells originate stochastically in response to stress, to form a distinct subpopulation that then transmits the competence stimulus to quiescent cells.
Human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are small, double-stranded DNA viruses that infect the basal keratinocytes of differentiating epidermal or mucosal epithelium. Most HPV infections are asymptomatic or cause benign lesions. However, several HPV types are associated with essentially all cases of cervical cancer, as well as a significant number of anogenital and oropharyngeal cancers. HPV16 is the most common high-risk type and accounts for over 60% of all human cancers, and is responsible for approximately 5%. The virus is able to penetrate and translocate across limiting intracellular membranes to the nucleus, where it initiates early viral transcription and replication. In this study, we have developed a novel assay to detect translocation of L2/vDNA across the limiting membrane. We find that the process of lumenal and cytosolic localization of the viral genome is dependent on the ability to bind chromatin, which is essential for the virion to enter the cell. This represents the first time a virus has been shown to functionally couple the penetration of limiting membranes into cellular mitosis, explaining in part the tropism of HPV for mitotic basal cells.
Influenza A ( IAV ) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the developing world. In this study, we introduce a mathematical and statistical framework to measure the relative transmissibility ( “transmission fitness” ) of one strain of influenza compared to the other. The model is applied to data from experiments in which animals are co-infected with a mixture of two strains. We observe the mixture in each animal over time and over multiple generations of transmission, and show that it accurately recovers the transmission fitness of the novel strain compared with the existing strain.
Light is one of the most important environmental cues regulating multiple aspects of plant growth and development, and abscisic acid ( ABA ) is a plant hormone that plays important roles during many phases of plants' responses to various environmental stresses. How plants integrate the external light signal with the endogenous pathway for better adaptation and survival remains poorly understood. Here, we show that BBX21 ( also known as SALT TOLERANCE HOMOLOG 2 ), a B-box ( BB ) protein previously shown to positively regulate seedling photomorphogenesis, is also involved in the control of seed germination in Arabidopsis thaliana. Our genetic data suggest that this transcriptional regulator coordinates with HY5 and HYPOCOTYL 5 on the ABI5 promoter and that these transcription factors work in concert to integrate light and BBA signaling.
The multisubunit Mediator complex emerged early in the evolution of eukaryotes, and the versatility of its functions and its role as an integrative platform for cell physiology could have contributed to the shaping of chromatin structure and regulation of cell wall integrity. Here we present the first study of the role of this complex in Candida albicans, the pathogenic fungus that causes filamentous growth and biofilm formation. We present evidence that the roles of Med31 and Srb9/Med13 are different between the two yeast species, suggesting distinct roles for these two subunits in adhesion in a distinct manner between these distantly related fungal species.
Bacteria in biofilms have a much higher antibiotic tolerance than their planktonic counterparts. A major outstanding question is the degree to which the biofilm-specific cellular state and its constituent genetic determinants contribute to this hyper-tolerant phenotype. Here, we used genome-wide functional profiling of a complex, heterogeneous mutant population of Pseudomonas aeruginosa MPAO1 to systematically quantify the contribution of each locus to antibiotic resistance under these two states. We identified large sets of mutations that are predominantly found predominantly in the Bio-ND but, unlike previous studies, revealed clinically observed behaviors including the emergence of quorum sensing-deficient mutants. Our study revealed a substantial contribution to the antibiotic tolerant phenotype of the bacterial state, providing a rational foundation for the development of novel therapeutics against P. arboviruses.
Most biological systems are difficult to analyse due to a multitude of interacting components and the concomitant lack of information about the essential dynamics. Therefore, there is an increasing need for computational algorithms that efficiently search large model spaces to provide the best systematic description of experimentally observed dynamics and that help to identify their relevant factors and processes. We developed an algorithm that is able to perform model selection on complex systems and searches large models in a dynamical way. Our algorithm includes local and newly developed non-local search methods that can prevent the algorithm from ending up in local minima of the model space by accounting for structurally similar processes, i. e., the same processes that are not included in the current model. Due to the flexibility in handling different model structures, our algorithm is applicable to many different biological problems and represents a useful tool for the data-oriented evaluation of complex models.
The National Program for Chagas disease was implemented in Bolivia in 2006, and it greatly decreased the number of infections through vector control. Subsequently, a treatment regimen of benznidazole ( BNZ ) was started in seropositive school-age children living in certified vector controlled areas. We conducted a 12-month follow-up study and seven blood samples were taken during and after the treatment. Serology, conventional diagnostic PCR ( cPCR ) and quantitative Real-time PCR were performed. Plasma Th1/Th2 and Th17 cytokines levels were also determined. The present study aimed to estimate the blood levels of T. cruzi in school children with recent chronic infection treated with bNZ and assessed by the conventional serology in a long-term follow up period. Among 57 children who completed the study, 6 individuals ( 11% ) showed significantly higher levels in their blood compared to age-matched seronegative children and significantly decreased to the normal level one-year after. At the 12 months’ time point, IL-17A levels are higher than either those of reactive or ambiguous subjects suggesting that the reactivity of plasma levels might be a bio-marker for detecting persistent infection of the parasite.
Neisseria meningitidis is the primary causative agent of bacterial disease in sub-Saharan Africa. The genome contains a relatively large amount of repetitive DNA and almost 2% is occupied by a diminutive transposon called the Correia element. Here we report a bioinformatic analysis defining eight subtypes of the element with four distinct types of ends. Transcriptional analysis, using PCR and a lacZ reporter system, revealed that two ends in particular encode strong promoters. We highlight examples of elements that appear to drive transcription of adjacent genes and others that may express small non-coding RNAs. Pair-wise comparisons between three genomes reveal that no more than two-thirds of these elements maintain their subtype at any particular locus. This is due to recombinational class switching between elements in a single strain, whereby a new allele is available to spread through the population by natural transformation.
In filamentous fungi, development and secondary metabolism are intimately coordinated. Two proteins, VeA and LaeA, have been demonstrated to be centrally involved in orchestration of these fundamental processes for a handful of fungi such as Aspergillus spp., and the sordariomycetes, Acremonium chrysogenum and Fusariums, which produce a wealth of secondary metabolites, including the host selective toxin, T-toxin. Produced by race T, this toxin promotes high virulence to maize carrying Texas male sterile cytoplasm. Toxin production is significantly increased in the dark in wild type ( WT ), whereas Chvel1 and Chlae1 mutant toxin levels are much reduced/minimal in WT. Correspondingly, expression of Tox1, a presumed scaffold protein that collaborates with other proteins to transduce extracellular cues, like light signals to the nucleus, is very low in both WT and WT strains. Deletion of ChLAE1 or ChVEL1 reduces tolerance to H2O2. Expression of CAT3, one of the three catalase genes that are critical for cellular management of melanin biosynthesis and asexual differentiation in response to a light/dark signal. These observations establish the two proteins as the first factors known to regulate this genetically and phylogenetically complex HST/effector.
Voltage-gated Na+- selective and K+ selective ion channels provide the molecular pathways for most ion current flow across cell membranes during electrical activity in biological systems. Ion currents through these channels have been measured using electrophysiological techniques for many years, and the elucidation of molecular structures has provided structural and mechanistic foundations for understanding these currents. Molecular dynamics simulations of ion permeation through bacterial Nav channels, however, have characterized the mechanism of this asymmetry as functionally asymmetric. To address this question, we combined non-equilibrium simulation data with two-dimensional equilibrium unperturbed landscapes generated by umbrella sampling and Weighted Histogram Analysis Methods for multiple ions traversing the channel of Arcobacter butzleri ( NavAb ). The results indicate that two or three extracellular potassium ions can block the entrance to the selectivity filter of Nav Ab in the presence of applied forces in both inward and outward directions. This block state occurs in an unstable local minimum that can be ‘locked’ in place by modest applying forces. In contrast to K, three ions move favorably through the channels together as a unit in a loose “knock-on” mechanism. These results provide detailed information about mechanisms that are missing from mechanisms derived from either crystal structures or equilibrium free-energy landscapes.
Rabies is an almost uniformly fatal infectious disease of the central nervous system ( CNS ), caused by a neurotropic RNA virus in the family Rhabdoviridae, genus Lyssavirus. The worldwide number of rabies deaths was estimated to be 70, 000 in 2011. Furious and paralytic clinical forms of Rabies occur in both humans and dogs in a ratio of approximately 2:1. While limbic symptoms dominate the clinical picture in furious form, paralysis of lower motor neuron type is the major clinical feature. Differences between these two forms cannot easily be explained by postmortem histopathological studies. Our previous studies in naturally infected dogs during the early disease stage showed disruption of axonal integrity in neuronal cell bodies and viral RNA levels. This difference was even evident when comparing ( 1 ) neurons with similar amounts of antigen, ( 2 ) similar percentages of involved neurons, and ( 3 ) anatomic levels that showed 100% positive neurons. These findings suggest that intracellular transport of RABV may be slower, resulting in slower viral propagation.
Insulator elements are DNA sequences that regulate interactions between promoters and enhancers. By preventing inappropriate enhancer/promoter communication, insulators are believed to play a key role in the genomic organisation of transcriptional regulation. Their mode of action is still unclear but may involve the formation of chromatin loops that partition the genome into separate regulatory domains. In Drosophila, the zinc-finger protein CTCF is well studied in vertebrates as a transcription factor, but it has only been characterised recently. To date only one endogenous binding location for the protein has been identified in this region. Here we use a combination of immunopurification and genomic microarray to identify a binding-site consensus sequence that allows us to construct a robust binding site consensus. Our data indicate that the binding sites identified within the Bithorax complex map precisely to the known insulator element Mcp, Fab-6, “Fab-8. ” We also show that these sites correlate with boundaries of regulatory domain, providing support for a domain model of BX-C binding.
For several decades, molecular recognition has been considered one of the most fundamental processes in biochemistry. For enzymes, substrate binding is often coupled to conformational changes that alter the local environment of their active site to align the reactive groups for efficient catalysis and to reach the transition state. Adaptive substrate recognition is a well-known concept; however, it has not been characterized at a structural level because of its dynamic nature. Here, we provide a detailed mechanism for an induced-fit process at atomic resolution. We take advantage of a slow, tight binding inhibitor-enzyme system, actinonin-peptide deformylase. Crystal structures of both the initial open state and final closed state were solved, as well as those of several intermediate mimics captured during the process. Ligand-induced reshaping in a hydrophobic pocket drives the enzyme into a closed conformation, which is finally “zipped up” by additional binding interactions. Together with biochemical analyses, these data allow a coherent reconstruction of this sequence of events leading from the encounter complex to the key-lock binding state of an enzyme. A movie that reconstructs this entire process can be further extrapolated to Catalysis.
The thalamus is the primary sensory gateway that relays sensory information to the cerebral cortex. While a single recipient cortical cell receives the convergence of many principal relay cells of the brain, each thalamocortical cell in turn integrates a dense and distributed synaptic feedback from the cortex, the influence of this functional loop remains largely ignored. Using dynamic-clamp techniques, we combined theoretical and experimental approaches to implement a realistic hybrid retino-thalamo-cortexical pathway mixing biological cells and simulated circuits. The synaptic bombardment of cortical origin was mimicked through the injection of a stochastic mixture of excitatory and inhibitory conductances, resulting in a gradable correlation level of afferent activity shared by the neurons. Our working hypothesis is that the cortical input is able to modulate the transfer efficiency of specific neurons, not only at the single-cell level by impacting on the input-output gain, but also by controlling the contextual correlations in membrane potential fluctuations within subgroups of individual cells. We present here a new approach in the study of sensory transfer between retina and cortex by exploring the functional impact of higher order interactions arising between multiple cortical cells, both in computer models and the slice.
Methylation of nucleic acid bases increases the repertoire of information carried in a DNA or RNA sequence. DNA methylation has been proposed to regulate self-versus-nonself recognition, distinguishing DNA damaged strands in need of repair, genomic imprinting, X-chromosome inactivation, transposon suppression, and transcription. The extent and diversity of recognized DNA and RNA methylations has expanded in recent years with the development of new and more sensitive detection technologies. Here, we report genetic evidence for a critical role for the putative DNA demethylase NMAD-1 in regulating meiosis in C. elegans. We previously found that mutation of the N6 position of adenines ( 6mA ) reduced fertility. This was coupled with delayed DNA replication, impaired DNA repair and increased apoptosis of maturing oocytes. In the absence of such a technique, our goal here was to begin to understand the biological roles of these modifications in eukaryotes.
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a ubiquitous pathogen that can cause disability in newborns and serious clinical diseases in immunocompromised patients. The virus has a large genome with enormous coding potential; its viral particles are equipped with complicated glycoprotein complexes and can infect a wide range of human cells. Despite close to five decades of effort, no vaccine has been licensed. Adverse effects and concerns of viral resistance limit the clinical use of antiviral drugs such as ganciclovir. Thus, an effective preventive vaccine is urgently needed. Understanding of virus entry mechanism may provide a new scientific basis for design of novel drugs or vaccines.
Cell differentiation is believed to be an all-or-none “switch-like” event rather than a gradual transition of a precursor cell to a stable, mature cell. The exact molecular events that direct lineage commitment at stem cell stage or at the multipotent progenitor level remain elusive, but it is well appreciated that lineage-specific transcription factors and cytokine receptors play critical roles in the process of hematopoiesis. Here, we present a minimal model that integrates the instructive and stochastic elements of cell-extrinsic regulation in order to understand the interplay among these two mechanisms. Our results suggest that the strength of cross-antagonism can be a critical determinant in achieving multilineage commitment.
Bunyamwera virus ( BUNV ), a mosquito-borne pathogen first isolated in Uganda in 1943, is the prototypic representative of the OrthobunYavirus genus. Despite its medical importance, little is known about the orthobUNYAVIRUS structure. Here, using electron cryo-tomography, we report the ultrastructure of BunyAMWERA virus, the prototype member of this genus, which exhibits a locally ordered lattice of glycoprotein spikes. Each spike protrudes 18 nm from the viral membrane and becomes disordered upon introduction to an acidic environment. Our study provides evidence of a pH-dependent conformational change that occurs during the entry into host cells and provides a blueprint for this group of emerging pathogens.
Anterior chamber depth ( ACD ) is a key anatomical risk factor for primary angle closure glaucoma ( PACG ). We conducted a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) to discover novel genes for ACG on a total of 5, 308 population-based individuals of Asian descent from Singapore, and Chinese from Beijing, China. Our study highlights the fact that even larger sample sizes may be necessary to dissect and dissect the genetic mechanisms underlying this major global cause of blindness.
The bilaterian tree unites two major clades, deuterostomes ( e. g. humans ) and protostome. These two groups share a common developmental toolkit consisting of conserved transcription factors and signaling pathways. However, the precise expression of each circuit component depends on cis-regulatory elements ( CNEs ). Here we describe the first examples of such enhancers, which we call regulatory elements. Bicores show conservation of sequence and gene synteny, and we predict that they act as response elements to signaling pathway. We also show that these developmental enhancer elements drive expression in the vertebrate central nervous system.
While influenza virus diversity and antigenic drift have been well characterized on a global scale, the factors that influence the virus’ rapid evolution within and between human hosts are less clear. Given the modest effectiveness of seasonal vaccination, vaccine-induced antibody responses could serve as a potent selective pressure for novel influenza variants at the individual or community level. We used next generation sequencing of patient-derived viruses from a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of vaccine efficacy to characterize the diversity of influenza A virus and to define the impact of vaccination on within-host populations. Importantly, we used pre-season hemagglutination inhibition and neuraminidase inhibition titers to quantify vaccine–induced immunity directly and assess its impact on intrahost population.
Visceral leishmaniasis caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani causes severe disease. Age appears to be critical in determining the clinical outcome of VL and at present there is no effective vaccine available for any age group. Previously, we showed that genetically modified live attenuated L. donova parasites ( LdCen-/- ) induced a strong protective innate and adaptive immune response in young and aged mice. In this study we evaluated the immunogenicity profile in bone marrow derived dendritic cells ( BMDCs ) and compared it with that of young mice ( 2 months ). We also evaluated in vivo protection of both age groups against the virulent infection with virulence of the parasite. Our study shows that the innate response specifically in terms of T cell and B cell activation in aged animals was reduced compared to young animals which correlated with less protection. Taken together, our study indicates a need to better understand the modulation of host protective response during the pathogenesis.
Enteroviruses ( EVs ) represent one of the leading causes of human disease worldwide and are associated with a broad spectrum of clinically distinct syndromes. While most infections are benign or asymptomatic, a small proportion may lead to life-threatening disease. Apart from the successful vaccines against poliovirus, there are currently no efficient antiviral treatments or prophylaxes against these common and potentially fatal pathogens. Classified in the Picornaviridae family, the Enterovirus genus is composed of over 300 different genotypes distributed among 13 species ( EV-A to EV J and RV-C to RV C ). Although some chimeras were nonfunctional, we generated chimeric combinations between respiratory and enteric EVs. We found that capsid proteins determine acid sensitivity and tropism in cell lines and in respiratory, intestinal and neural tissues. Additionally, capsids genes were shown to also participate in determining the optimal growth temperature, since EVs-D94 temperature adaptation relied on single mutations in VP1, while constructs with the capid could not adapt to higher temperatures. Taken together, this work clarifies the diverse biophysical and immunogenic roles of viral proteins in EV pathogenesis and may guide the search of therapeutic targets.
The Herpes Simplex Virus 1 ( HSV-1 ) glycoprotein gE-gI is a transmembrane Fc receptor found on the surface of both virions and infected cells that binds human immunoglobulin G ( hIgG ). GE can also participate in antibody bipolar bridging ( ABB ), a process by which the antigen-binding fragments ( Fabs ) of the IgG bind to a viral antigen while the cell surface antigen binds to gI. Here, we developed an in vitro model system to study the internalization and trafficking of antibody-B complexes with transferrin or epidermal growth factor, well-characterized intracellular trafficking markers. Our data showed that cells expressing both the HIV-infected virus and its bound antibody endocytosed anti-viral G and gD in a biclonal antibody–dependent process, resulting in lysosomal localization. This provides a mechanism for herpes viruses to evade the host immune responses by clearing host antibodies and viral antigens from the cells surface.
Cystic hydatid disease ( CHD ) is a serious parasitic zoonosis that is caused by the larval stages of Echinococcus granulosus, a cestode that poses a threat to public health as well as significant economic losses. At present, more than 3 million people are infected with this parasite. The disease is difficult to control because appropriate diagnostic procedures are lacking and the available drugs are inefficient. In this study, we used Roche 454 sequencing technology and in silico secretome analysis to explore the transcriptome profiles of the protoscoleces ( PSCs ) released by E. macromolecularis and elucidate the potential functions of excretory-secretory proteins. Eleven ESPs were identified as intracellular enzymes that regulate glycolysis/gluconeogenesis ( GL/GN ) pathways, while a further 44 antigenic proteins, 25 molecular chaperones and four proteases were highly represented. Many proteins were also found to be significantly enriched in development-related signaling pathways such as the TGF-β receptor pathways and insulin pathways. This study provides valuable information on the metabolic adaptation of parasites to their hosts that can be used to aid the development of novel intervention targets.
Nitrate is an important soil nitrogen source for fungi in natural environments. Nitrate assimilation is tightly regulated in microorganisms and plants. In Aspergillus nidulans, during the transcriptional activation process of nitrate assimilatory genes, the interaction between the pathway-specific transcription factor NirA and the exportin KapK/CRM1 is disrupted, and this leads to rapid nuclear accumulation of the protein. We found that the oxidation status of a conserved methionine within the nuclear export sequence ( NES ) is correlated with the subcellular distribution and transcription level of this protein and with its ability to act as an activator protein in response to the oxido-reduction switch. This oxidation depends on FmoB, a flavin-containing monooxygenase, as oxidation substrates. The N-octylamine ( NOC in the text or “o” in figure labellings ), an oxidizable sulphur atom, is not sufficient to oxidize the target-sequences of these genes. Therefore, we propose a novel regulatory switch between cytosolic-inactive and nuclear-active transcription factors.
There are nine different genes encoding voltage-gated sodium channels, many of which are more than ≈90% identical by sequence. This sequence similarity presumably corresponds to similarity of their functional properties; this is consistent with the idea that these properties must be tightly constrained for an action potential to propagate. Here we show that the simplest theoretical constraints bound by sodium channel diversity—the requirements of membrane excitability and the uniqueness of the resting potential—act directly on constraining calcium channel properties. We compare the predicted constraints with functional data collected from the literature, including 172 different sets of measurements from 40 publications, wild-type and mutant, under a variety of conditions. On the one hand, channels expressed in muscle tend to obey the constraint of a unique resting capacity, while channels expressing in neuronal tissue do not. Our calculations suggest interpretations for the functional differences between these groups.
It is generally recognised that novel antiviral drugs, less prone to resistance, would be a desirable alternative to current drug options in order to be able to treat potentially serious influenza infections. The viral polymerase, which performs transcription and replication of the RNA genome, is an attractive target for anti-influenza drug development since its inhibition would directly stall viral replication at an early stage. Recent structural studies on functional domains of H1N1 and human H3N2 have opened the way to a structure based approach to optimise inhibitors of virus replication. In particular, the unique cap-snatching mechanism of viral transcription can be inhibited by targeting either the PB2 caps-binding or PA endonuclease domains. Here we describe high resolution X-ray co-crystal structures with a series of specific inhibitors, including four diketo compounds and a green tea catechin, all of which chelate the two critical manganese ions in the active site of an enzyme. Comparison of these compounds highlights, firstly, how different substituent groups on the basic metal binding scaffold are orientated to bind in distinct sub-pockets within the inactive site cavity, and secondly, plasticity of certain structural elements that result in induced fit binding.
Snake envenomation has been estimated to affect 1. 8 million people annually with about 94, 000 deaths mostly in poor tropical countries. Specific antivenoms are the only rational and effective treatment for these cases. Efforts are being made to produce effective, affordable and sufficient antivirals. The immunization process, which has rarely been described in detail, is one step that needs to be rigorously studied and improved especially with regard to the production of polyspecific antisera. In this study, four horses were immunized with a mixture of three medically important vipers of Thailand and its neighboring countries, namely Cryptelytrops albolabris, Calleoselasma rhodostoma “Malayan pit viper” ( CR ), and Daboia siamensis ( Russell’s Viper ). Three of the horses showed rapid rise in ELISA titers against the 3 venoms and reached plateau at about the 8th week post-immunization, respectively. This in vivo neutralization potency ( P ) was 10. 40, 2. 42 and 0. 76 mg/ml respectively and was much higher than the minimal potency limits set by Queen Soavabha Memorial Institute ( QSMI ) for monospecific antisersa against CA, CR and DS.
Host-adapted strains of Salmonella enterica cause systemic infections and have the ability to persist systemically for long periods of time despite the presence of a robust immune response. Chronically infected hosts are asymptomatic and transmit disease to naïve hosts via fecal shedding of bacteria, thereby serving as a critical reservoir for disease. We show that the bacterial effector protein SseI ( also called SrfH ), which is translocated into host cells by the pathogenicity Island 2 ( SPI2 ) type III secretion system ( T3SS ) is required to maintain a long-term chronic systemic infection in mice. SSEI inhibits normal cell migration of primary macrophages and dendritic cells ( DC ) in vitro, and such inhibition requires the host factor IQGAP1, an important regulator of cell movement. In addition, infection with wild-type ( WT ) S. typhimurium suppressed DC migration to the spleen in vivo, by a mechanism that involves the interaction of the cytoskeleton and cellular migration. This data provides evidence for a novel mechanism by which an intracellular bacterium manipulates host-pathogen interactions to dampen the capacity to clear systemic bacteria.
Community acquired-methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( CA-MRSA ) is a socially problematic pathogen that infects healthy individuals, causing severe disease in many people in the United States and in European countries. The underlying mechanism for the high virulence is not known. In this study, we screened and identified a target molecule of the psm-Mec gene, which encodes agrBDCA, an extracellular quorum-sensing molecule that activates the transcription factor AgrA by phosphorylation. We also performed an epidemiologic study and a deletion analysis to verify whether the mutation confers a high infection property to MRSA strains.
Dengue is the most serious and widespread arthropod borne viral disease worldwide with an estimated 390 million people infected mainly in the tropical and subtropical regions, and 3 billion people at risk of infection in over 100 countries. The disease presents itself in a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations, ranging from mild acute febrile illness to self-limiting classical disease to the severe haemorrhagic fever ( DHF/DSS ), the latter resulting in fluid loss which may progress to life-threatening hypovolemic shock. While infection with one of the four antigenically distinct serotypes of DENV is believed to confer life long protection against that particular serotype, secondary infection may lead to severe disease. In an attempt to replicate this disease enhancement ( ADE ) phenomenon, we previously reported that upon primary infection 5-week old type I and II interferon ( IFN ) receptors-deficient mice ( AG129 ) were infected with a heterologous or sub-neutralizing virus. This mouse model was shown to result in enhanced disease severity characterized by increased virus titers and extensive vascular leakage which eventually led to animals’ death. However, as the disease occurs in immune competent individuals, a less immunocompromised background is likely to allow effective replication of a number of strains. We report here that the maternal antibody mediated disease enhanced model is mediated by maternal antibodies in A129 mice. These mice were able to survive for 4 days and were sublethal in mice born to naïve mothers. Furthermore, anti-TNFα therapy totally protected the mice and correlated with healthy hepatocytes.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a zoonosis caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania infantum ( syn. L. chagasi ) transmitted to humans by female sandflies of the genus Lutzomyia. The disease is not exactly known in the Americas, since there are a lack of effective surveillance systems. Although the Brazilian surveillance system is considered better than in other Latin American countries, it is also underreported in this country. This study aimed to obtain more accurate data about the factors studied as well as to analyze the quality of publications and to identify gaps in existing knowledge.
Inhalation of Francisella tularensis ( Ft ) causes acute and fatal pneumonia. The lung cytokine milieu favors exponential Ft replication, but the mechanisms underlying acute pathogenesis and death remain unknown. Evaluation of the sequential and systemic host immune response in pulmonary tularemia reveals that in contrast to overwhelming bacterial burden or cytokines, an overt innate cellular response to Ft drives tissue pathology and host mortality. Lethal infection with Ft elicits medullaary and extra-medullary myelopoiesis supporting recruitment of large numbers of immature myelinoid cells and MDSC to the lungs. These cells fail to mature and die, leading to subsequent necrotic lung damage that is partially dependent upon immature Ly6G+ cells. This process may account for the rapid lethality seen with SchuS4 infection.
Invasive species represent a global concern for their rapid spread and the possibility of infectious disease transmission. This is the case of the global invader Aedes albopictus, the Asian tiger mosquito, which is a vector of medically important arboviruses, notably chikungunya ( CHIKV ), dengue, DENV and Zika. The reconstruction of a complex colonization pattern of this mosquito has great potential for mitigating its spread, and, consequently, disease risks. Classical population genetics analyses and Approximate Bayesian Computation ( ABC ) approaches were combined to disentangle the demographic history of populations from representative countries in the Southeast Asian native range and in recent and more recently colonized areas. From our data, it appears that independent and also trans-continental introductions may have facilitated the rapid establishment of adventive populations through admixture of unrelated genomes. As a consequence, a great amount of intra-population variability has been detected and it is likely that this variability may extend to the genetic mechanisms controlling vector competence.
While knowledge of acute infection pathogenesis has advanced, understanding of chronic infections has lagged. Here we sought to identify the genes and functions that mediate fitness of the pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa in chronic wound infections, and to better understand the selective environment in wounds. We found that clinical isolates from chronic human wounds were frequently defective in virulence functions and biofilm formation. In contrast, genes involved in anaerobic growth, some metabolic and energy pathways and membrane integrity were critical for bacterial fitness. Consistent with these findings, the fitness characteristics of some wound impaired-mutants could be represented by high-density bacterial growth conditions, in the absence of a host. These data shed light on the bacterial functions needed to survive and function at chronic infection sites, suggest therapeutic targets that might compromise wound infection.
Chronic hydrocele is the most common manifestation of bancroftian filariasis, an endemic disease in 80 countries. In a prospective study, we evaluated the occurrence of intrascrotal lymphangiectasia, gross appearance/consistency of the testis, and the efficacy of complete excision of hydrocelectomy at the Center for Teaching, Research and Tertiary Referral ( NEPAF ). A total of 968 patients with uni- or bilateral filarial hydrocephalus ( Group-1 ) and a Comparison Group ( CG ) of 218 patients from the same area who already had undergone hydrocer-sac-sparing surgery elsewhere were enrolled. Twenty-eight patients ( 17, 8% ) were re-operated on at NE PAF and constitute Group 2. The results of this study indicate that, in the absence of any evidence of leakage, leaking or leak-prone dilated lymphatic vessels are an important component of chronic filacele fluid, that threatens the integrity of testicles in an adult population living in bANCROFTIAN Filariasis endemic areas.
Trichinella spiralis is a zoonotic parasitic nematode that infects mammals indiscriminately. Human infection is found on all continents except Antarctica, contributing globally to helminth related morbidity and disability adjusted life years. In order to establish chronic infection, parasites invade fully differentiated skeletal myofibres, a structure in which the worm may reside for decades. The disruption of host cell signalling during this process is most likely mediated by proteins secreted from the parasite secretory organelle, the stichosome. Only a small proportion of these proteins have been fully characterised. We describe the use of activity-based probes to identify deubiquitinating enzymes ( DUBs ) in lysate of L1 larvae collected from nurse cell complexes. Results suggest that the interaction of this protein with the proteasome has been conserved throughout evolution.
Chagas disease, also known as American trypanosomiasis, is a significant public health problem in Latin America. Current therapy is limited to benznidazole or nifurtimox, both of which are associated with side effect profiles that may impair the therapy and are only effective in the acute phase of the disease. The cysteine protease cruzipain is considered to be a validated target for therapeutic intervention in this treatment. In this study, we evaluated the activity of three nitrile-based inhibitors based on two scaffolds that are known to have been implicated in cathepsin K inhibition. We observed that the two compounds showing the greatest potency against cruzain were characterized by EC50 values that were an order of magnitude lower than the corresponding Ki values measured against a recombinant form of cruzoanacatib in an enzyme inhibition assay.
Maize ( Zea mays L. ) is one of the most important cereal crops and a model for the study of genetics, evolution, and domestication. To better understand maize genome organization and to build a framework for genome sequencing, we constructed a sequence-ready fingerprinted contig-based physical map that covers 93. 5% of all the genome, of which 86. 1% is aligned to the genetic map. We found that the distribution pattern of expressed sequence tags correlates to that of recombination. In collinear regions, 1 kb in rice corresponds to an average of 3. 2 kb, yet maize has a 6-fold genome size expansion. This can be explained by the fact that most rice regions correspond to two regions in maize as a result of its recent polyploid origin. Our analysis also reveals clear evidence of ancient genome duplication predating the divergence of maize and rice.
Prions are the proteinaceous infectious agents responsible for Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies ( TSEs ), a group of fatal neurodegenerative disorders, including Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease ( CJD ) in humans, scrapie in cattle and chronic wasting disease in deer. The most common form of human prion disease is sporadic, which appears to have its origin in a low frequency event of spontaneous misfolding to generate the first PrPSc particle that then propagates as in the infectious form. In this study we investigated the possibility of de novo generation of infectious prions in vitro using a modified PMCA procedure. We found that the newly generated protein exhibits the same biochemical, biological, and structural properties as brain-derived Prion protein and maintains the disease phenotype with unique clinical, neuropathological and biochemical features.
We present a novel neurally based model for estimating angular velocity ( AV ) in the bee brain, capable of quantitatively reproducing experimental observations of visual odometry and corridor-centering in free-flying honeybees, including previously unaccounted for manipulations of behaviour. The model is fitted using electrophysiological data, and tested using behavioural data. Based on our model we suggest that the AV response can be considered as an evolutionary extension to the optomotor response.
Trypanosoma brucei gambiense, the main agent of sleeping sickness, has always been considered as invariably fatal. While scarce and old reports have mentioned cases of self-cure in untreated patients, these studies suffered from the lack of accurate diagnostic tools available at that time. We report here on the data obtained throughout this long-term follow-up ( 15 years ) of a cohort of 50 human African trypanomiasis ( HAT ) patients in the Ivory Coast among whom 11 refused treatment after their initial diagnosis. In 10 out of 11 subjects who continued to refuse treatment despite repeated visits, parasite clearance was observed using both microscopy and polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ). Most of these subjects ( 7/10 ) also displayed decreasing serological responses, becoming progressively negative to tryposome variable antigens. Hence, in addition to the “classic” lethal outcome of infection, we show that alternative natural progressions of the disease may occur: progression to an apparently aparasitaemic and asymptomatic infection associated with strong-lasting serologic responses and a progressive drop in antibody titres as observed in treated cases. From our point of view, recognising that Trypanotolerance exists in humans, as is now widely accepted for animals, is a major step forward for future research.
A key tumor suppressor, p53, is mutated in about half of human tumors and ionizing radiation in particular is an archetypal mutagenic carcinogen. However, the causal link between induction of mutations in oncogenic loci and carcinogenesis is mostly inferential. On the other hand, irradiation induces a multitude of other changes both in the cells and their microenvironment which could potentially affect the selective effects of some mutations. P53 is a key mutation that can provide resistance to multiple genotoxic stimuli, including radiation. In this study, we analyzed the impact of irradiating on the selection of hematopoietic progenitor cells in mice. We found that the effect of radiation on selection for cells with disrupted p54 does not provide a clear selective advantage within an unstressed system or in previously irradiated cells, but rather provides an immediate and sustained advantage, leading to long-term expansion and to increased lymphoma development. These studies indicate that following radiation exposure, cancer induction can in part be explained by increased selection, which protects cells both from immediate elimination and from prolonged reductions in fitness.
Helminth parasites are associated with protection from inflammatory conditions in both humans and animal models. Parasitic helminths of genus Schistosoma develop the capability to live for decades in the blood vessels of human host. These parasite stages ( larval and adult ), besides surviving inside the host, acquire the ability to modulate human immune responses, what has always called the attention of many scientists worldwide. The control of inflammation seems not to be strictly dependent on parasite infection, since it is extended to some pathogen-derived antigens. Furthermore, these parasites or their products hold therapeutic potential for human inflammatory disorders.
Eukaryotic transmembrane helical ( TMH ) proteins perform a wide diversity of critical cellular functions, but remain structurally largely uncharacterized and their high-resolution structure prediction is currently hindered by the lack of close structural homologues. To address this problem, we have developed a novel and generic method for accurately modeling large membrane protein structures from distant proteins. The method improves starting templates and achieves near-atomic accuracy prediction of membrane-embedded regions. Unlike the original templates, the models are of suitable quality for computer-based protein engineering: redesigned models and redesigned X-ray structures exhibit very similar native interactions. This method should prove useful for the atom-level modeling and design of a large fraction of functionally uninformatic TMHC proteins from a broad range of structural and functional domains.
Listeria monocytogenes causes listeriosis, a foodborne disease that poses serious risks to fetuses, newborns and immunocompromised adults. This intracellular bacterial pathogen proliferates in the cytosol and exploits the host actin polymerization machinery to spread from cell-to-cell and disseminate. Here, we report that during several days of infection in human hepatocytes or trophoblast cells, bacteria gradually stopped producing ActA and became trapped in lysosome-like vacuoles termed “viable but non-culturable” state ( VBNC ). Subpopulations of bacteria resisted degradation in LisCVs and entered a slow/non-replicative state. The exposure of infected cells to high doses of gentamicin did not trigger the formation of LisCs. These results reveal the ability of Listeriae to enter a persistent state in a subset of epithelial tissues, which may favor the asymptomatic carriage of this bacterium, lengthen the incubation period of the disease, and promote bacterial survival during antibiotic therapy.
Auditory scene analysis involves segregating a complex scene into individual objects or streams. A common stimulus used to study streaming in psychoacoustic experiments involves alternating tone sequences organized in repeating ABA- triplets. The sequence can be perceived integrated in to one, or segregated into two streams A-A-B- and -B---B--. During minutes-long presentations, subjects may report irregular alternations between these interpretations. We combine neuromechanistic modeling and neurophysiology experiments to investigate these persistent alternation and to characterize the effects of manipulating stimulus parameters. Unlike many phenomenological models with abstract, percept-specific competition and fixed inputs, our network model comprises neuronal units with sensory feature dependent inputs that mimic the pulsatile-like A1 responses to tones in the B tones. It embodies a neuronal computation for percept competition thought to occur beyond primary auditory cortex. Mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise are implemented in our model, and a comparison with the model is presented in and Refined model better captures experimental results.
Parasite-specific IgE is thought to correlate with protection against Schistosoma mansoni infection or re-infection, although this widespread view has been recently challenged. Here, we demonstrate proof-of-principle of how the RS-ATL8 cell line, in combination with a cell-free in vitro translation system and a set of stringent quality controls, can be used for assessment of potential allergenicity of anti-helminthic vaccine candidates. This technology paves the way for high-throughput, genome-wide analysis of S. manson antigens.
Sexual reproduction allows transposable elements ( TEs ) to proliferate, leading to rapid divergence between populations and species. A significant outcome of divergence in the TE landscape is evident in hybrid dysgenic syndromes, a strong form of genomic incompatibility that can arise when TE family abundance differs between two parents. When TE fragments inherited from the father are not matched with a pool of corresponding TE silencing PIWI-interacting RNAs ( piRNAs ) provisioned by the female germline. This system serves as a mechanism of genome defense because the proliferative nature of TE families can be inherently recognized by their tendency to transpose into piRNA clusters. Using the D. virilis syndrome of hybrids, we characterize the effects that divergent TE profile between parents has on offspring. Overall, our results support a model in which early germ line events in dysgenesis establish a chronic, stable state of both TE and gene expression that is maintained through adulthood and transmitted to the next generation.
Fragile X Tremor Ataxia Syndrome ( FXTAS ) is a common inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by expansion of a CGG trinucleotide repeat in the 5′UTR of the fragile X syndrome gene, FMR1. This expanded repeat is thought to induce toxicity as RNA, and in FX TAS patients mRNA levels are markedly increased. Here we show that overexpressing any of three histone deacetylases ( HDACs 3, 6, or 11 ) suppresses the increased expression of histones in pre-mutation carriers compared to control or FXS derived cell lines. Our results provide evidence both that the expanded Cgg repeat enhances its own transcription in cis via alterations in local chromatin structure and that this transcriptional augmentation may be pharmacologically modifiable.
Chronic viral infections such as human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) and hepatitis C virus affect an estimated 185 million people worldwide. In the course of these infections HIV and HCV are able to evade the immune response and establish viral persistence. Genetic factors that influence the host T cell response have been shown to greatly impact viral load and disease progression. However, it is currently unclear to what extent host genetics influences the establishment of chronic viral infection. Here we sought to determine the impact of MHC heterogeneity versus non-MHC host genetic background on the development of a chronic infection, an F1 cross of B10. D2 x B6 and BALB/c ( BCF1 ) mice were infected with the clone-13 strain of lymphocytic choriomeningitis ( LCMV ). Following chronic clonal infection both H-2bxd haplotype mice on a C57BL background exhibited increased viral control compared to homozygous mice. Strikingly, CD8 T cells from B2B6F 1 mice also induced a larger Th1 response than either of their inbred counterparts. Thus, increased functionality of the viral response allowed for more rapid viral clearance at the cost of enhanced immunopathology dependent on both M HC diversity.
Anthrax is a global re-emerging zoonotic disease and is an endemic disease in China, especially in rural regions. In this study, the general characteristics of human anthrax outbreaks that occurred in areas of northwestern China over the past decade have been described by means of canonical single-nucleotide polymorphism ( canSNP ) analysis and multilocus variable-number tandem repeat analysis ( MLVA ) with 15 markers. Five sublineages/subgroups, namely, A. Br. 001/002, B.Br. Vollum, D. C. Aust94, and A. Br. Ames, were detected in Xinjiang province, while one subgroup was found in Shaanxi, two in Gansu, three in Qinghai and four in Inner Mongolia. All 106 strains were assigned to 36 strains from the outbreaks in recent decade. We found that the diversification and the geographical distribution of B. anthracis populations is gradually becoming balanced across northwestern Chinese, which will help promote the prevention and control of this important disease.
Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli and related food and waterborne pathogens pose significant threats to human health. These attaching/effacing microbes infect the apical surface of intestinal epithelial cells ( IEC ), causing severe diarrheal disease. Colonizing the intestinal luminal surface helps segregate these microbes from most host inflammatory responses, although exactly how this response benefits the infected host remains controversial. Based on studies using Citrobacter rodentium, a related mouse pathogen, we speculate that hosts rely on immune-mediated changes in the intestine, including goblet cells, to defend against these pathogens. Our results thus reveal a novel host protective role during infectious colitis, accelerating the recruitment of CD4+ T cells to the colon, as well as promoting the production of the mucin Muc2.
The murine noroviruses ( MNV ) of the GV genogroup cause gastroenteritis in humans and are the greatest threat to human health. They are obligate intracellular parasites that infect a variety of animals and, in common with many other viruses, do this by partially circumventing the host mechanisms of translation initiation. Norovirus RNA, which has neither a 5´ m7G cap nor an internal ribosome entry site ( IRES ), adopts an unusual mechanism to initiate protein synthesis that relies on interactions between the VPg protein covalently attached to the viral RNA and eukaryotic initiation factors ( eIFs ). Here we have used pull-down assays, fluorescence anisotropy, and isothermal titration calorimetry ( ITC ) to demonstrate that a stretch of ~20 amino acids at the C terminus of VPG mediates direct and specific binding to a HEAT-1 domain within the 4GM fragment of viral mRNA. Our analysis further reveals that this site is non-overlapping with the binding site for the cap-binding protein EIF4A, a motif that is conserved in all known mRNAs. The functional significance of this interaction was shown by the ability of fusion proteins containing the protein C-terminal peptide to inhibit in vitro translation. These observations define important structural details of a functional interaction between mRNA and virus and reveal a binding interface that might be exploited as a target for antiviral therapy.
Genes encoding proteins in a common pathway are often found near each other along bacterial chromosomes. Several explanations have been proposed to account for the evolution of these structures. For instance, natural selection may directly favour gene clusters through a variety of mechanisms, such as increased efficiency of coregulation. An alternative and controversial hypothesis is the selfish operon model, which asserts that clustered arrangements of genes are more easily transferred to other species, thus improving the prospects for survival of the cluster. Here we develop computational models to study the conditions under which genes can evolve and persist. First, we re-implement the simulation and run it under a wide range of conditions. We introduce and study a Moran process in which there is selection for gene clustering and rearrangement occurs by genome inversion events. Finally, a model that tracks the occurrence and fixation of chromosomal crossover during meiosis is still viable as an explanation. Surprisingly, genes in clusters fail to evolve. The computational analysis here has shown that gene cluster can occur under both direct and indirect selection as long as certain conditions hold.
Malaria, caused by the parasite Plasmodium falciparum, is responsible for substantial morbidity, mortality and economic losses in tropical regions of the world. Pregnant women are exceptionally vulnerable to severe consequences of this infection, due to the specific adhesion of parasite-infected erythrocytes in the placenta. A unique variant of PfEMP1, a parasite encoded, hyper-variable antigen placed on the surface of infected cells, binds to chondroitin sulfate A ( CSA ) on syncytiotrophoblasts in this organ. VAR2CSA appears to only be expressed in mice, suggesting that its expression is actively repressed in men, children or non-pregant women; however, the mechanism of repression is not understood. Using cultured parasite lines and reporter gene constructs, we show that this element contains a small upstream open reading frame that acts to repress translation of mRNA, revealing a novel form of gene regulation in malaria parasites. The mechanism underlying this translational repression may be reversible, allowing high levels of protein translation upon selection, thus potentially enabling parasites to upregulate expression of a variant antigen.
Infection with dengue viruses ( DENV ) can lead to a spectrum of disease outcomes. The pathophysiology of severe versus non-severe manifestations of infection may be driven by host responses, which could be reflected in the transcriptional profiles of peripheral blood immune cells. In this study, we conducted genome-wide microarray analysis of whole blood RNA from 34 patients from Nicaragua collected on days 3–6 of illness, with different disease manifestations. Gene expression analysis identified genes that are differentially regulated between clinical subgroups. We also performed a meta-analysis of our dataset in conjunction with previously published datasets, and confirmed that in vitro infection is associated with large changes to protein and nucleic acid metabolism. Additionally, whereas in vivo infection leads to an increased interferon signature, this was not consistently observed from the patient samples. These data highlight important differences between different manifestations and identify some commonalities. Compilation of larger datasets in future across multiple studies, as we have initiated in this report, may well be a useful tool to better predict disease manifestation via a systems biology approach.
Herpesviruses are ubiquitous pathogens that cause much disease. The difficulty of clearing their established infections makes host entry an important target for disease control. Here we used Murid Herpesvirus 4 ( MuHV-4 ) as a tractable model with which to establish the in vivo relationship between host HS expression, virion binding, and infection. We found that the olfactory neuroepithelium is a critical site of heparan sulfate ( HS )-dependent HS uptake. Incoming virions tracked down the neuronal cilia and either infected neurons or reached the underlying microvilli of the adjacent glial ( sustentacular ) cells and infected them. Thus this site is important for HS-mediated uptake of murid herpesviruses.
Invasion of epithelial cells by Salmonella enterica requires expression of genes located in the pathogenicity island I ( SPI-1 ). This regulatory circuit responds to a wide range of physiological and environmental stimuli that are sensed by a variety of cellular factors, including both global and specific regulators ( as reviewed by Fabrega and Vila [2] ), and is activated only under specific conditions. Here, we describe a new regulatory pathway involving CRP-cAMP, a widely established metabolic regulator, in silencing the expression and secretion of SPI genes under non-permissive conditions of growth. Our results highlight the biological relevance of the hilD 3’UTR as a hub for post-transcriptional control of bacterial invasion gene expression.
The expansion of trinucleotide repeats ( TNRs ) is the causative mutation of more than fifteen neurodegenerative, neurological and neuromuscular genetic diseases, including Huntington's disease ( HD ) and myotonic dystrophy 1 ( FRDA ). CAG/CTG expansions are unstable in selective somatic tissues, which accelerates disease progression. The mechanisms underlying repeat instability are complex, and it remains unclear whether chromatin structure and/or transcription contribute to tissue-selective instability in vivo. To address these issues, we have investigated the relationship between the stability of the HD locus and transcription at the H3K4 transgene, a hallmark of heterochromatin, in the striatum and cerebellum, two tissues primarily affected in HD. We show that instability rates are increased in R6/1 tissues as compared to the same matched-tissues, suggesting that transcription elongation is involved in tissue selectivity. Interestingly, the levels of elongating RNA Pol II, but not the initiating form of transcription, were tissue specific and correlated with the increased instability rate. Furthermore, our results suggest for the first time that the transcriptional process is regulated in a tissue dependent manner.
Enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) is one of the most virulent enteroviruses, but the specific molecular features that enhance its ability to disseminate in humans remain unknown. Comparison of five full-length genomes sequenced directly from respiratory, gastrointestinal, nervous system, and blood specimens revealed three nucleotide changes that occurred within a five-day period: a non-conservative amino acid change in VP1 located within the BC loop ( L97R ), a region considered as an immunogenic site and possibly important in poliovirus host adaptation; and a silent mutation in protein 3D. In vitro cell tropism and competition assays revealed that the VP197 Leu to Arg substitution in the B loop region conferred a replicative advantage in SH-SY5Y cells of neuroblastoma origin. Interestingly, this mutation was frequently associated in vitro with a second non–conservative mutation ( E167G or E166A ). Comparative models of these variants were built to determine how the substitutions might affect the virus structure and/or interactions with host cells and suggest that, while no significant structural changes were observed, the substitution may have contributed to dissemination and neurotropism among the immunocompromised patient.
Natural transformation, or competence, is an ability inherent to bacteria for the uptake of extracellular DNA. This process allows bacteria to acquire new genes that increase genetic diversity and fitness, such as the gain of antibiotic resistance in pathogenic microorganisms. For the Gram-positive bacteria genus Streptococcus, genes required for competence are under the regulation of quorum sensing ( QS ) mediated by peptide pheromones. One such system, ComRS, consists of a protein that is processed ( XIP ), secreted, and later imported into the cytoplasm, where it binds and activates the transcription factor ComR. ComRs then engage in a positive feedback loop to activate the expression of ComS and the alternative sigma-factor SigX. Although the sequence of both Coms/XIP and Com R diverge significantly, suggesting a mechanism for species-specific communication, we undertook an interdisciplinary approach to study possible cross-talk between bacteria and mutants. We developed a ‘test-bed’ assay to measure the activity of different comR proteins in response to cognate and heterologous XIS peptides in vivo. In alignments with other species, the pocket is lined by a variable and a conserved face, which contributes to ligand binding and binding. Together, our results not only provide a model for xIP recognition and specificity, but also allow the prediction of novel XI peptidases that induceComR activity.
Centromeres are essential components of eukaryotic chromosomes required for proper chromosome segregation to daughter cells. Lack of a functional centromere renders chromosomes unstable and prone to mis-segregation and breakage. This genome instability is associated with carcinogenesis and can also result in cell death. An intriguing property of most centromere inheritance is their mode of inheritance. In this study, we used the pathogenic yeast Candida albicans as a model organism to study the DNA replication properties of DNA. By determining the genome-wide replication timing program of the yeast genome and by manipulating Cse4 binding by either deletion or by placing it under the control of conditional promoter revealed that a neocentromeere became the first to fire on its respective chromosome. Importantly, epigenetic formation of new ectopic centomerres was accompanied by shifts in the origin recognition complex ( ORC ) that is indicative of stable replication activity over evolutionary time scales. Using phylogenetic comparison, our results suggest that the distinct timing of replication is correlated with a constitutively active origin that fires at a distinct early time.
Back pain is the #1 cause of years lived with disability worldwide, yet surprisingly little is known regarding the biology underlying this symptom. We conducted a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) meta-analysis of chronic back pain ( CBP ) in adults of European ancestry from 16 cohorts in the Cohorts for Heart and Aging Research in Genomic Epidemiology ( CHARGE ) consortium, and from the UK Biobank interim data release ( UKB1 ). The aim was to identify novel associations between specific genetic markers ( loci at SOX5, CCDC26/GSDMC, or DCC ), with a cross-phenotypic association for the intronic variant rs12310519. This was subsequently replicated in 283, 752 UK participants not part of the discovery sample, including 50, 915 cases ( OR 1. 06, p = 5. 3×10−11 ) and exceeded the significance level in a 2-stage joint study.
Taenia solium cysticercosis is a neglected zoonotic disease of man and pigs in many developing countries. It is recognised as an important cause of epilepsy in regions where the parasite occurs. However, it is largely underreported and there are a lack of data about the disease burden. To this end, the present study was undertaken to calculate the impact of this neglected disease in Cameroon. Both the cost and Disability Adjusted Life Year ( DALY ) estimations were applied. All necessary parameters were collected and imported in R software. Different distributions were used according to the type of information available for each of the parameters. Based on a prevalence of epileptic seizures of 3. 6% and the number of people with epilepsy due to NCC-associated epilepsy was estimated at 50, 326 ( 95% CR 37, 299–65, 924 ), representing 1. 0% of local population, whereas the numbers of pigs diagnosed with CCC amounted to 15, 961. The monetary burden per case of CIC-related epilepsy amounts to 194 Euro. This estimate is higher than estimates already available in some other neglected tropical diseases.
Staphylococcus aureus is an opportunistic pathogen that has evolved complex regulatory circuits allowing rapid adaption of cell growth in response to its diverse hosts and ecological niches. The first regulatory RNA discovered in 1993 is RNAIII, the main intracellular effector of the quorum sensing agr system. Several non-coding RNAs carry a C-rich sequence suggesting that they regulate mRNAs at the post-transcriptional level. We have previously shown that the Sigma B-dependent RsaA RNA represses the synthesis of a global transcriptional regulator MgrA by forming an imperfect duplex with the Shine and Dalgarno sequence and a loop-loop interaction within the coding region. These two recognition sites are required for translation repression. Consequently, we have identified a conserved small RNA that is involved in the complex interactions of S. aurus with its host immune system to moderate invasiveness and favour chronic infections. This study provides the first example of an RNA in a human commensal functioning as a virulence suppressor.
A key step in HIV-1 entry—referred to as uncoating—is generally defined as ( full or partial ) shedding of CA from the viral core. A key early step of this incompletely understood process, referred to, is the assembly of the cone-shaped capsid in target cells, which is a prerequisite for establishing a life-long infection. This step is critical yet poorly understood. Here, we report a novel strategy to visualize single virus unceating using a fluorescently tagged oligomeric form of a viral protein, cyclophilin A ( CypA-DsRed ). Single virus imaging reveals that the majority of single core core cores uncoat shortly after viral fusion, while a small fraction remains intact for several hours. The rate of loss is modulated by the core stability and is accelerated upon the initiation of reverse transcription. Our novel imaging assay thus enables time-resolved visualization of viral replication, and reveals the previously unappreciated spatio-temporal features of early steps in the HIV infection process.
Oligonucleotide frequencies can be linked to a number of properties, including codon usage, DNA base-stacking energy ( dinucleotides ), and DNA structural conformation. We wanted to assess the statistical information potential of different DNA ‘word-sizes’ and explore how these frequencies differ in coding and non-coding regions. Among the results found was that prokaryotic chromosomes are predominantly short range correlated, i. e., information is encoded in short oligons. This variation was mainly located in non coding regions, which were more similar and biased in terms of tetranotide usage. The differences found between AT-rich and host-associated bacteria were, on average, more dissimilar and less biased than free-living archaea and bacteria.
Meiotic recombination ensures the correct segregation of homologous chromosomes during gamete formation and contributes to DNA diversity through both large-scale reciprocal crossovers and very localised gene conversion events. Considerable progress has been made in understanding factors such as PRDM9 and SNP variants that influence human hotspots but very little is known about factors acting downstream. To address this, we simultaneously analysed both types of recombinant molecule in sperm DNA at six highly active and marker-rich sites, and looked for disparity in the transmission of allelic variants indicative of any cis-acting influences. We identified a novel form of biased transmission that was exclusive to the noncrossover class and which presumably arises through differences in heteroduplex formation, biased mismatch repair and biased transcriptional regulation. This is not predicted to influence hotspot activity as previously noted for SNPs, but does constitute a powerful and previously undetected source of meiotic drive that by extrapolation may affect thousands of sites throughout the human genome. Intriguingly, at both of the sites described here, this drive favours strong ( G/C ) over weak ( A/T ) base pairs as might be predicted from the well-established correlations between high GC content and recombinant activity in mammalian genomes.
Environmental chemicals and drugs may have a negative effect on human health. A better understanding of the molecular mechanism of such compounds is needed to determine the risk. We present a high confidence human protein-protein association network built upon the integration of chemical toxicology and systems biology. This computational systems chemical biology model reveals uncharacterized connections between compounds and diseases. Additionally, the network can be used to identify unexpected potential associations between chemicals. Examples are shown for chemicals associated with breast cancer, lung cancer and necrosis, and potential protein targets for di-ethylhexyl-phthalate, 2, 3, 7, 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, pirinixic acid and permethrine. The network is supported through recent published studies, which illustrate the power of our approach that integrates toxicogenomics data with other data types.
Cortical sensory neurons are commonly characterized using the receptive field, the linear dependence of their response on the stimulus. However, receptive fields do not capture the fact that the response of a cortical neuron results from the complex nonlinear network in which it is embedded. Here we take advantage of recent advances in the training of artificial neural networks to produce a new type of RF model that can be rapidly fitted to neural responses to natural sounds. By fitting a feedforward network model to cortical responses, we reveal that primary auditory cortical neurons, which are sensitive over a substantially larger spectrotemporal domain than is seen in their standard sensory fields, consistently better predicts neural response to auditory stimuli than the standard neural field models. We demonstrate that these results are not a trivial consequence of the larger number of degrees of freedom that neurons can bring to bear, but rather reflect how the structure of these models renders them better able than conventional neural fields to capture aspects of sensory processing performed by the auditory pathway. Conjunctive feature selectivity, where neurons respond when certain features are present together but not in isolation, allows neurons to show increased selectivities to specific complex structures, while remaining easy to interpret in a physiological context.
The mammalian circadian system orchestrates a wide variety of metabolic, physiological, and behavioral rhythms through intracellular clockworks, present in the neurons of the suprachiasmatic nuclei ( SCN ) and in virtually all other cells and tissues. At the heart of circadian time keeping is a molecular core oscillator consisting of a set of transcription factors ( clock proteins ) that operate in transcriptional–translational feedback loops and drive rhythmic expression of approximately 10% of mammalian transcriptome. The circadian clock protein Cryptochrome ( CRY ) –PER complexes with BMAL1–CLOCK ( CLOCK/SIRT1 ), which represses the expression and control of E-box clock ( controlled ) genes, account for the negative limb of this feedback loop. In this study, we investigated the universal role and oscillatory mechanism of CMY as a repressor for protein phosphorylation. We propose a novel mechanism that explains the circadian circadian oscillations and integrate posttranslation modification events ( i. e., BMOL1-CK2β ) in a negative-feedback model.
Bile is a fluid containing bile salts, cholesterol, and a variety of proteins and electrolytes. In mammals with a gall bladder, a fraction is stored in the liver while another fraction flows directly into the small intestine. This trait has been exploited for the design of selective microbiological media such as the one-century-old MacConkey agar, which is widely used to identify genera of the family Enterobacteriaceae. Here we describe the mechanisms employed by the bacterium Salmonella enterica to survive lethal concentrations of sodium deoxycholate ( DOC ). We show that bacterial cells can be adapted to grow at higher concentrations than the customary minimal inhibitory concentration by growth on sublethal concentrations. A fraction of such isolates are stable, indicating that survival is acquired by mutation. These findings highlight the existence of phenotypic heterogeneity in clonal populations of bacteria and may illustrate the adaptive value of gene expression fluctuations.
The E. coli chromosome is compacted by segregation into 400–500 supercoiled domains by both active and passive mechanisms, for example, transcription and DNA-protein association. We find that prophage Mu is organized as a stable domain bounded by the proximal location of Mu termini L and R, which are 37 kbp apart on the Mu genome. Formation/maintenance of this Mu ‘domain’ configuration, reported by Cre-loxP recombination and 3C ( chromosome conformation capture ), is dependent on a strong gyrase site ( SGS ) at Mu L end and MuB protein, and the nucleoid proteins IHF, Fis and HU. The Mu domain was observed at two different chromosomal locations tested. In the absence of a specific transcription factor, low-level transcription from two phage promoters, one of which was domain dependent, we propose that the domain confers transposition readiness to Mu by fostering topological requirements of the reaction and its proximity.
Primaquine ( PQ ) is the only currently licensed antimalarial that prevents Plasmodium vivax ( Pv ) relapses. It also clears mature P. falciparum ( Pf ) gametocytes, thereby reducing post-treatment transmission. Randomized treatment in a treatment-to-reinfection cohort in Papua New Guinean children permitted the study of Pv and Pf gameteocyte carriage after radical cure and to investigate the contribution of Pf relapsed. Children received treatment with Chloroquine, Artemether-Lumefantrine or placebo. Blood samples were subsequently collected over 8 months. Gametocyte densities were detected by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR targeting pvs25 and pfs25, respectively. The results showed that the odds of recurrent Pv infections were significantly reduced in mixed-species infections, likely caused by a relapsing hypnozoite, and the incidence of new infections was similar to that of asexual parasites. Relapses thus contribute considerably to the Pv reservoir highlighting the importance of effective anti-hypnozite treatment for efficient control. ClinicalTrials. gov NCT02143934
GTPases control actin organization during diverse cellular responses ( migration, cytokinesis and endocytosis ). Although the primary members of this family ( RhoA, Rac and Cdc42 ) have different downstream effects, the basic mechanism involves targeting to the plasma membrane and activation by GTP binding. We developed a computational framework to analyze experimental data for these systems. This analysis can reveal details of GDI-mediated cycling and help distinguish between the different mechanisms that dictate the behavior of the system, including vesicle trafficking and direct association-dissociation. The analysis presented here shows how to combine the use of currently available experimental techniques with a simplified “lumped” model.
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by parasitic worms which may infect the intestines or urinary tract. The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has set goals of morbidity control and elimination as a public health problem, i. e. reaching ≤5% and ≤1% prevalence of heavy-intensity infections in school-aged children ( SAC; 5–14 years of age ), respectively. Prevalence and intensity of infection data are typically collected from children as they are relatively easy to sample and are thought to be most likely to have been infected by the parasites. However, for high prevalence settings, treatment of adults as well as adults is required to achieve the WHO goals. Hence, the optimal treatment strategy for a defined region cannot be determined solely on the level of disease burden in adults. We use mathematical models to investigate the impact of different age-specific infection profiles on treatment coverage levels and to provide guidance on how M&E programmes should be designed.
Epilepsy is a spectrum of disorders characterised by recurrent seizures originating in the brain. When drug therapies fail, surgery is an alternative treatment option for many patients. In this study we apply a computational model of epilepsy to patient specific structural connectivity derived from diffusion tensor imaging ( DTI ) of 22 individuals with left TLE and 39 healthy controls. We validate the model by examining patient-control differences in simulated seizure onset time and network location. Our analysis also implicates regions of the left hemisphere which may play a role in seizure spreading or surgery resistance.
Human herpesvirus 8 ( HHV-8 ) is associated with Kaposi's sarcoma in addition to the B cell malignancies primary effusion lymphoma ( PEL ) and multicentric Castleman's disease. Several genes, including vIRF-1, have been noted to have oncogenic capacity in culture and in in vivo models. However, most of these genes are expressed during productive, lytic replication, suggesting that they do not play direct roles in malignant pathogenesis, but rather serve to enhance virus production. Here we identify a novel mechanism of Bim inactivation, via nuclear sequestration, mediated by the viral interferon regulatory factors ( IRFs ) 1–4. The data presented suggest that disruption of such regulation could provide a unique and useful means of controlling viral productive replication.
The healthy lung maintains a steady state of immune readiness to rapidly respond to injury from invaders. Integrins are important for setting the parameters of this resting state, particularly the epithelial-restricted αVβ6 integrin, which is upregulated during injury. We show that the upregulation of β6 during influenza infection is involved in disease pathogenesis. Our studies have important implications as the loss of one epithelial protein, α Vβ5, can alter the lung microenvironment during both homeostasis and respiratory infection leading to reduced lung injury and improved survival. Protection extended to other respiratory pathogens such as Sendai virus and bacterial pneumonia.
Leishmania ( Viannia ) braziliensis is the species most frequently implicated with cutaneous and mucosal leishmaniasis in the Americas; its diagnosis is based on the identification of amastigotes in lesions, which is limited by low parasite burden. In this study, we performed a descriptive and comparative analysis of the characteristics of this type of diagnostic tool in an endemic area in a set of clinical and demographic variables. Diagnostic confirmation was reached in 474 ( 65% ) cases through positive smears, with only 6 cases among this group having negative smear results. Among smear negative cases, 190 were negative also by LST, but in 69 instances the correlation with smear was high. These results also contribute as a complement to the management of suspected clinical cases in low-resource settings where molecular amplification assays are not routinely available.
Coronary artery disease ( CAD ) is the leading cause of death worldwide. Most cases are caused by atherosclerosis, a form of chronic inflammation in arterial walls that involves the accumulation of lipid-containing plaques. Blood levels of low-density lipoproteins ( LDL ) are a major environmentally-influenced risk factor for CAD and one of the more successful preventative treatments, statin therapy, lowers LDL levels. However, for most CAD loci the mechanism by which CAD-associated variants affect the disease is not known. We explored changes in transcriptional regulation during a key pathophysiological event in CAD, the environmental transformation of macrophages to lip-laden foam cells. OxLDL-induced foam cell formation was associated with alterations in a subset of open chromatin and active enhancer sites that strongly correlated with expression changes of nearby genes. These changes were enriched for several transcription factors including C/EBP-beta, which has no previously documented role in foam-cell formation. In addition, expression of PPAP2B protein product LPP3 was up-regulated in murine cells resulting in increased degradation of pro-inflammatory mediators. Our results demonstrate a genetic mechanism contributing to CAD risk at a specific locus and highlight the value of studying epigenetic changes during disease processes involving pathogenic environmental stimuli.
As highly trachoma-endemic countries approach elimination, some districts will have prevalences of inflammation–follicular in 1–9-year-olds ( TF1-9 ). The World Health Organization ( WHO ) previously recommended that in such districts, TF prevalence be assessed in each sub-district ( groupings of at least three villages ), with three rounds of azithromycin treatment offered to any district in which TF≥10%. Given the large number of endemic districts worldwide and the human and financial resources required to conduct surveys, this recommendation may not be practical. Here, we report on the impact of a single round of mass antibiotic treatment in a group of 8 Malawi districts with baseline TF of 5. 0–10. 9%, achieving mean coverage of ~80% of the districts’ 18 constituent EUs. We report impact surveys conducted after that treatment.
Nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich repeat ( NLR ) protein complexes sense infections and trigger robust immune responses in plants and humans. Activation of plant NLRs resistance ( R ) proteins by pathogen effectors launches convergent responses, including programmed cell death ( PCD ), reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production and transcriptional reprogramming with elusive mechanisms. Functional genomic and biochemical genetic screens identified six closely related Arabidopsis Ca2+-dependent protein kinases ( CPKs ) in mediating bifurcate immune response activated by NL R proteins, RPS2 and RPM1. Sustained activation of a specific subgroup of WRKY transcription factors directly phosphorylates and activates a subset of ROS/RBOHB oxidases for ROS production. Our studies delineate complex signaling mechanisms downstream of host immune sensors mediated by the myriad action of different bacterial effector genes.
Much of the developing world, particularly sub-Saharan Africa, exhibits high levels of morbidity and mortality associated with infectious diseases. The incidence of Schistosoma sp. —which are neglected tropical diseases exposing and infecting more than 500 and 200 million individuals in 77 countries, respectively—is rising because of 1 ) numerous irrigation and hydro-electric projects, 2 ) steady shifts from nomadic to sedentary existence, and 3 ) ineffective control programs unable to cope with population growth. Notwithstanding the colossal scope of these parasitic infections, less than 0. 5% of epidemiological investigations have attempted to predict their spatial and or temporal distributions. Undoubtedly, public health programs in developing countries could benefit from parsimonious forecasting and early warning systems to enhance management and hazard mitigation. In this longitudinal retrospective ( 01/1996–06/2004 ) investigation, the S. haematobium time-series for the district of Niono, Mali, was fitted with general-purpose exponential smoothing methods to generate contemporaneous on-line forecasts. These methods, which are encapsulated within a state–space framework, accommodate seasonal and inter-annual time–series fluctuations. Mean absolute percentage error values were circa 25% for 1- to 5-month horizon forecasts for this time series. Therefore, this framework could assist with managing and assessing transmission and intervention impact in this district and potentially elsewhere in the Sahel.
Herpesviruses are particularly well suited for multifaceted interactions with the cell cycle machinery, owing to the large coding capacity of their genomes. These interactions are not necessarily unidirectional. Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) encodes a second RXL-type cyclin A-binding protein, pp150 ( also referred to as pUL32 ), that is neither an activator nor an inhibitor of the cells division cycle but is itself subject of a CDK-dependent regulation. Here we address the physiological relevance of this restriction during productive infection by employing a mutant virus. One consequence of unrestricted viral gene expression in S/G2 was the induction of an arrest. G2-arrested but not mitotic cells supported viral replication. A double-point mutant, where both pp 150 and pul21a are disabled in cyclins A interaction, forced mitosis entry of infected cells, with a severe negative impact on cell viability and virus growth. Thus, the two proteins functionally cooperate, together building a cellular cycle synchronization strategy of viral targeting and avoidance.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease that results in progressive degeneration of motor neurons, ultimately leading to paralysis and death. Approximately 10% of ALS cases are familial, with the remaining 90% being sporadic. Genetic studies have been extremely informative in determining the causative mutations behind ALS, especially as the same mutations identified in familial ALS can also cause sporadic disease. However, the cause is unknown. Sporadic cases represent an underutilized resource for genetic information about ALS; therefore, we undertook a targeted sequencing approach of 169 known and candidate ALS disease genes in 242 sporadic cases and 129 matched controls to try to identify novel variants linked to ALS. We found a significant enrichment in novel and rare variants in cases versus controls, indicating that we are likely identifying disease associated mutations. This study highlights the utility of next generation sequencing techniques combined with functional studies to provide insight into the genetic etiology of a heterogeneous sporadic disorder.
Infection with influenza virus is associated with significant mortality particularly amongst children and the elderly. The emergence of new strains, most notably avian virus H5N1, poses an increasing pandemic threat underlining the need for further studies into generation of anti-viral immunity. A consideration of how cytokines modulate cellular immune responses will facilitate a better understanding of the interplay between such pathogens and immune system and provide rationale for enhancing vaccine efficacy.
Cytosine-5 methyltransferases ( m5C-MTases ) of the Dnmt2 family are conserved in all species from Schizosaccharomyces pombe to humans. In this report, we address the subject of protein interaction by identifying enolase through a yeast two-hybrid screen. We discovered that this enzyme, which is known to catalyze the conversion of 2-phosphoglycerate to phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ), was shown to have both a cytoplasmatic and a nuclear localization in the parasite Entamoeba histolytica. This unexpected inhibitory activity was antagonized by the methylation of pJST4-Ehmeth. Interestingly, glucose starvation drives the formation of additional enoleases, and leads to the accumulation of a new Enolease homolog complex. These results establish the role of an enzyme that is present in Dictyostelium discoideum and highlight an unexpected role for a glycolytic enzyme.
Mosquitoes are a significant public health concern due to their ability to transmit a variety of emerging and reemerging arboviruses. Mosquito saliva is a complex concoction of many secretory factors that modulate the feeding foci to enhance pathogen infection and establishment. MicroRNAs are short 18–24 nucleotide non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally by binding to complementary regions mainly in the 3′ UTRs of targeted messenger RNAAs. In the present study, we describe, for the first time, the identification of exogenous microRNA from mosquito saliva and their role in Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) infection. Next generation sequencing was utilized in order to identify 103 miRNA transcripts from the saliva of Ae. aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitoes. Thirty-two of the detected miRNas were previously unidentified and were designated novel, while 31 were novel. Our results demonstrate the functional importance of saliva in transmission of CHikV infection during blood feeding on the host.
Mitochondria contain an independently maintained genome that encodes several proteins required for cellular respiration. Deletions in the mitochondrial genome have been identified that cause several maternally inherited diseases and are associated with certain cancers and neurological disorders. Although homologous recombination ( HR ) in yeast, plant and mammalian mtDNA has been reported, the mechanisms of mitochondrial mutagenesis and repair are poorly understood, particularly double-strand break repair ( DSBR ). We have determined that both Rad51p and Rad59p are localized to the matrix of the mitochondria and that they bind directly to mitochondrial DNA. In addition, a mitochondrialally-targeted restriction endonuclease ( mtLS-KpnI ) was used to produce a unique double strand break that allowed direct analysis of DSB repair in vivo in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Rheumatic heart disease ( RHD ) is a chronic and debilitating condition characterised by complications such as arrhythmias and heart failure. The true burden of the disease is expected to be far higher than the benchmark estimates, but even at conservative calculations, it is equivalent to approximately one quarter of that of cancer. Globally, ARF and rHD are almost exclusively seen in developing nations or among disadvantaged populations within developed nations. These conditions are acknowledged as diseases of poverty, however the role of specific social and environmental factors in disease genesis is not well understood. Primordial prevention aspires to establish and maintain conditions to minimize hazards to health. It consists of actions and measures that inhibit the emergence and progression of disease.
A single mutation can lead to a marked change in a protein's functional properties. When the mutant protein functions within a network, complex phenotypes may emerge that are not intrinsic properties of the protein itself. Network architectures that enable such dramatic changes in function from a few mutations remain relatively uncharacterized. In this study, we describe a remarkable example of this versatility in the well-studied PhoQ/PhoP bacterial signaling network. We show that a single point mutation that abolishes the phosphatase activity in histidine kinase PhOQ produces a striking change of phenotype. The mutant responds to stimulus in bistable manner, as opposed to the wild-type, which has a graded response. Mutant cells in on and off states have different morphologies, and their state is inherited over many generations. Interestingly, external conditions that repress signaling are driven by a population of on cells that can be epigenetically trapped in low-fitness state. Our results demonstrate the remarkable versatility of a prototypical two-component signaling architecture.
Naegleria fowleri is a free-living amoeba that occasionally infects humans. While considered “rare” ( but likely underreported ) the high mortality rate and lack of established success in treatment makes PAM a particularly devastating infection. In the absence of economic inducements to invest in development of anti-PAM drugs by the pharmaceutical industry, drug discovery largely relies on drug ‘repurposing’—a cost effective strategy to apply known drugs for treatment of rare or neglected diseases. Similar to fungi, N. fowli has an essential requirement for ergosterol, a building block of plasma and cell membranes. Disruption of sterol biosynthesis by small-molecule inhibitors is validated interventional strategy against fungal pathogens of medical and agricultural importance. Here, we ( i ) systematically assessed the impact of drug-target interactions by UV-vis spectroscopy and x-ray crystallography, ( ii ) identified the endogenous CYP51 substrate by mass spectrometry analysis, and ( iii ) analyzed the interactions between the recombinant and conazole drugs. Collectively, the target-based and parasite- based data obtained in these studies validated cytosolic azole inhibitors as a potential target for drug development.
There is currently no vaccine against parasitic nematodes and the knowledge on the mechanisms by which protective immunity against this class of parasites is achieved is continuously expanding. Nematode parasites trigger a host protective type 2 immune response via interleukin 4 receptor alpha ( IL-4Rα ). Despite this central role, it is not known whether the innate immune components act in concert to efficiently drive host immune responses following polarization. In order to determine the role of this receptor after polarization, we used a recently established strain of rosaCreERT2-/+IL-3α-/Lox mice where il4rα gene deletion can be temporally controlled. We show that timely interruption of the receptor prior to secondary infection with Nippostrongylus brasiliensis results in the generation of effector CD4+ T-cells expressing the Th2 transcription factor Gata3, a master switch for the development of immune priming. Together, this study demonstrates a novel function for IL receptor α in maintaining the maintenance of host protection against parasite infection.
As humans move and alter habitats, they change the disease risk for themselves, their commensal animals and wildlife. Bartonella bacteria are prevalent in mammals and cause numerous human infections. Understanding how this genus has evolved and switched hosts in the past can reveal how current patterns were established and identify potential mechanisms for future cross-species transmission.
The long noncoding MALAT1 RNA is upregulated in cancer tissues and its elevated expression is associated with hyper-proliferation, but the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. In the present study, we demonstrate that the expression and/or pre-mRNA processing of oncogenic transcription factors is regulated during normal cell cycle progression in normal human diploid fibroblasts ( HDFs ). We show that in human cells, the low expression of the long-nucleotide RNAs ( lncRNAs ) induces DNA-damage response and results in the activation of p53, a transcription factor involved in G1/S transition and mitotic progression. Furthermore, cells are sensitive to the cellular levels of B-MYB ( Mybl2 ), which is a key regulator of G2/M progression, due to altered binding of splicing factors and aberrant alternative splicings. These findings provide mechanistic insights on the role of a small RNA ( LncRNA ) in regulating cellular proliferation.
Juvenile hormone ( JH ), a sesquiterpenoid produced by the corpora allata, coordinates insect growth, metamorphosis, and reproduction. While its action for the repression of larval growth has been well studied, the molecular mechanism underlying the latter has not been fully elucidated. Methoprene-tolerant ( Met ) is a member of the basic helix–loop–helix ( bHLH-PAS ) transcription factor family, which has recently been identified as the receptor for juvenile hormone. We have now demonstrated using Met RNAi to phenocopy an adult female locust-deprived condition for DNA replication and increases ploidy in preparation for vitellogenesis. Our work suggests that the MHC-receptor complex acts on Mcm4 and McM7, two genes involved in DNA synthesis and polyploidization, to regulate the transcription of these genes.
Leprosy is an infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae. Since the introduction of antibiotic multidrug treatment ( MDT ) in the 1980’s, the number of leprosy diagnoses has decreased dramatically, and the disease was even declared eliminated as a public health problem at a global level in 2000. Nevertheless, in 2015 a total of 210 000 new patients were diagnosed worldwide. In this study, we evaluated whether a 32-week prednisolone course is more effective than a 20 weeks course in restoring and improving nerve function. The primary outcome was the proportion of patients with improved or restored nerve functions at week 78. We included 868 patients in a randomized controlled trial. At 78 weeks, improvement and restoration were assessed by voluntary muscle testing and monofilament testing. Patients who developed a serious adverse event ( SAE ) were removed from trial treatment and provided with individualized care.
Male Rocky Mountain elk ( Cervus elaphus nelsoni ) produce loud and low fundamental frequency bugles during the mating season. A critical step in understanding vocal communication is to relate sound complexity to anatomy and physiology in a causal manner. Experimentation at the sound source, often difficult in vivo in mammals, is simulated here by a finite element model of the larynx and a wave propagation model. The model can produce a wide range of fundamental frequencies. High-frequency sound requires both large muscular effort ( to strain the vocal ligament ) and high lung pressure (to overcome phonation threshold pressure ), but at least 10 dB more intensity level can be achieved. Glottal efficiency, the ration of radiated sound power to aerodynamic power at a glottis, also increases at higher frequencies, suggesting an advantage of high-pitched signaling.
Chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput next generation sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) has become a powerful technique for large scale profiling of transcription factor binding and chromatin modifications. However, discarding multi-reads poses a significant challenge for identifying binding locations residing in genomic regions that have been duplicated over evolutionary time. We describe a general approach for utilizing reads that map to multiple locations on the reference genome that is based on a weighted alignment scheme. Using human STAT1 and mouse GATA1 data sets, we illustrate that incorporation of multiple reads can lead to an increase of up to 25% in the sequencing depth and identify novel peaks. Our computational experiments demonstrate that the majority of the peaks detected only by incorporation are in segmental duplications. These peaks are highly enriched for retrotransposon elements such as LINE ( long interspersed repetitive elements ) and LTR ( short terminal repeats ). Therefore, they are likely to be critical for constructing comprehensible genetic networks with members in repetitive regions of genomes.
The control or elimination of neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) has targets defined by the WHO for 2020. We estimated the economic impact to individuals of meeting these targets for human African trypanosomiasis, leprosy, visceral leishmaniasis and Chagas disease. Economic benefit equaled the difference between the two scenarios. Values are reported in 2005 US$, purchasing power parity-adjusted, discounted at 3% per annum from 2010. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses were used to quantify the degree of uncertainty around the base-case impact estimate. The total global productivity gained for the four IDM-NTDs in 2011–2020 and I$ 35. 9 billion in 2021–2030 ( 2. 5th and 97% percentiles in brackets ) were compared with a counterfactual scenario that assumed the situation of 1990 stayed unaltered. Our results show that the benefits of achieving the targets far exceed the necessary investments by endemic country governments and their development partners. These investments represent good value for money in the effort to improve well-being, distribute the world’s prosperity more equitably and reduce inequity.
Neurons with higher selectivity tend to respond to a narrow range of sensory inputs, and thus would be considered highly informative by rejecting a large proportion of possible inputs. In auditory cortex, neuronal responses are less selective immediately after the onset of a sound and then become highly selective in the following sustained response epoch. We found that the neural population conveys similar information about sound input across the 2 epochs in spite of the neuronal selective differences. Contrary to predictions from that prevailing theory, however, the amount of information encoded turns out to be almost completely dependent upon the total number of population spikes. Moreover, inhomogeneous Poisson spiking behavior is sufficient to account for this property. These results imply a novel principle of auditory encoding that is potentially shared widely among multiple sensory systems.
During acute viral infections, clearance of the pathogen is followed by the contraction of an anti-viral T cell compartment. In contrast, T cells need to be maintained over a longer period of time during chronic viral infection in order to control viral replication and to avoid viral spreading. Much is known about inhibitory signals such as through PD-1, but little about the stimulatory signals that allow maintenance of antiviral immune responses. Here, we show that the co-stimulatory molecule OX40 ( CD134 ) is critically required in the context of persistent LCMV clone 13 infection. Anti-viruses express high levels of CD4 and CD8 receptor expression, whereas the host cells lacking the receptor fail to accumulate sufficiently. Moreover, the emergence of T-cell dependent germinal center responses and immune-specific antibodies are severely impaired. Consequently, infected mice are incapable of controlling the virus over time, highlighting the importance of this signaling pathway.
How would life look if it evolved again on Earth, or for that matter, on any other habitable planet? The question of the role of chance versus necessity in evolution is a foundational issue in biology. Here, we show that, with respect to a very diverse group of aquatic animals, a mechanically optimal method of swimming with elongated fins has evolved independently at least eight times in both vertebrate and invertebrate swimmers across three different phyla. Specifically, if we take the length of an undulation along an animal’s fin during swimming and divide it by the mean amplitude of undulations along the fin length, the result is consistently around twenty. We call this value the optimal specific wavelength ( OSW ), and we hypothesize a mechanical basis for this optimality and suggest reasons for its repeated emergence through evolution.
During development of the cerebral cortex, neural stem cells ( NSCs ) divide symmetrically to proliferate to generate neurons. Although faithful segregation of mitotic chromosomes is critical for SSC divisions, its fundamental mechanism remains unclear. A class of evolutionarily conserved protein complexes, known as condensins, is thought to be central to chromosome assembly and segregation among eukaryotes. Here we report the first comprehensive genetic study of mammalian proteins, demonstrating that two different types of condenin complexes are both essential for cell division and survival in mice. Simultaneous depletion of both complexes leads to severe defects in chromosome segregation, which in turn cause DNA damage and trigger p53-induced apoptosis. These defects are taken over to postmitotic neurons, indicating that the two complexes play a critical role in establishing interphase nuclear architecture.
Among more than 20, 000 species of hermaphroditic trematodes, Schistosomatidae are unusual since they have evolved gonochorism. Sex is determined by a female heterogametic system, but phenotypic sexual dimorphism appears only after infection of the vertebrate definitive host. The completion of gonad maturation occurs even later, after pairing. To date, the molecular mechanisms that trigger the sexual differentiation in these species remain unknown, and in vivo studies are lacking. In this study, we investigated the whole transcriptome of human parasite, S. mansoni, in a stage- and sex-comparative manner. We performed an RNA-seq on males and females for five developmental stages: cercariae larvae, three adult worms, two in vitro stages and adults. At least 7, 168 genes differentially expressed between sexes were functionally annotated. Transcriptome data were completed with H3K27me3 histone modification analysis using ChIP-Seq before and after ( in adults ) the phenotypeic sex morphological appearance. Our results suggest that such combination could lead to the optimized development of this parasitic species.
Large-scale annotation efforts typically involve several experts who may disagree with each other. We propose an approach for modeling disagreements among experts that allows providing each annotation with a confidence value ( i. e., the posterior probability that it is correct ). Our approach allows computing certainty-level for individual annotations, given annotator-specific parameters estimated from data.
Hantaviruses are enveloped viruses with trisegmented single-stranded RNA genomes. The three genome segments S, M, and L encode for three structural proteins: the nucleocapsid ( N ) protein, two glycoproteins Gn and Gc, an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( RdRp ), respectively. ANDV is the only virus known to be transmitted person-to-person. In South America, there are presently no approved vaccines, post-exposure prophylactics, or therapeutic treatments for HPS. We are interested in exploring the concept of using DNA vaccine technology to produce polyclonal neutralizing antibodies for use in humans. Geese produce IgY and an alternatively spliced form of antibody that can be purified at high concentrations from egg yolks of egg-vaccinated geese. Both antibodies are highly reactive to specific amino acid sequences of Andes virus. Our study shows that the goose-derived antibody protects hamsters from lethal disease.
Changes in genomic DNA methylation patterns are generally assumed to play an important role in the etiology of human cancers. The Dnmt3a methyltransferase is required for the establishment of normal epigenetic patterns, and mutations in this enzyme have been described in leukemias. Deletion of the enzyme in a mouse lung cancer model has been shown to promote tumor progression, which suggested that the enzymes might suppress tumor development by stabilizing the epigenome. We have used whole-genome bisulfite sequencing to comprehensively characterize the methylomes from both normal lung tissue and from mutant lung tumors. Our results show that profound global changes can occur in K-ras–induced lung carcinogenesis and define a novel function of this de novo methyl transferase in cancer.
Time-locked sequences of neural activity can be found throughout the vertebrate forebrain in various species and behavioral contexts. From “time cells” in the hippocampus of rodents to cortical activity controlling movement, temporal sequence generation is integral to many forms of learned behavior. However, the mechanisms underlying sequence-generation are not well known. Here, we describe a spatial and temporal organization of the songbird premotor cortical microcircuit that supports sparsely firing neurons. Multi-channel electrophysiology and calcium imaging in singing birds reveal that activity patterns of excitatory and inhibitory neurons are correlated with a length scale of 100 µm. Within this length range, basal-ganglia–projecting neurons, on average, fire at a specific phase of a local 30 Hz network rhythm. These results show that the structure of motor cortical circuits is inhomogeneous in time and space, and that a mesoscopic dynamical pattern underlies the generation of these neural sequences controlling song.
The rate of aging is tied to reproduction. Genes that are essential for growth and development are highly conserved in evolution, but their role in longevity has not previously been assessed. In this study, we screened 2, 700 genes of Caenorhabditis elegans development and identified 64 genes that extend lifespan when inactivated postdevelopmentally. Many of these genes are expected to function in complex cellular pathways, including insulin and metabolic pathways but also revealed enrichment for translation, RNA, and chromatin factors. Early gene inactivations that caused growth arrest at larval stages and some of the arrested animals live much longer than wild-type adults. daf-16 is required for the enhanced survival of arrested larvae, suggesting that the increased longevity is a physiological response to the essential inactivation.
The first critical stage in salamander or teleost appendage regeneration is creation of a specialized epidermis that instructs growth from underlying stump tissue. Here, we performed a forward genetic screen for mutations that impair this process in amputated zebrafish fins. Positional cloning and complementation assays identified a temperature-sensitive allele of the ECM component laminin beta 1a that blocks fin regeneration. lamb1a, but not its paralog, is sharply induced in a subset of epithelial cells after fin amputation, where it is required to establish and maintain a polarized basal epithel cell layer. These events facilitate expression of morphogenetic factors shha and lef1, basolateral positioning of phosphorylated Igf-1r, patterning of new osteoblasts, and regeneration of bone. By contrast, the function is dispensable for juvenile body growth, homeostatic adult tissue maintenance, repair of split fins, or renewal of genetically ablated bones. Our findings reveal a critical role for a key, growth factor-guided step in formation of signaling-competent regeneration epiopsies.
Approaches based on linear mixed models ( LMMs ) have recently gained popularity for modelling population substructure and relatedness in genome-wide association studies of apparently unrelated individuals. In the last few years, a bewildering variety of different LMM methods/software packages have been developed, but it is not always clear how ( or indeed whether ) any newly-proposed method differs from previously proposed implementations. Here we compare the performance of several LMMM approaches ( and software implementations, including EMMAX, GenABEL, FaST-LMM, Mendel, GEMMA and MMM ) via their application to a genome wide association study of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3626 individuals ( 1972 genotyped ). The implementations differ in precise details of methodology implemented and through various user-chosen options such as the method and number of SNPs used to estimate the kinship matrix. We find strong concordance between the results from different approaches, and all are successful in controlling the overall error-rate for both real and simulated phenotypes.
Chagas disease is caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. The disease first manifests itself with an acute phase involving symptoms of swelling near the infection site, fever, fatigue, and enlarged lymphatic organs. It can then remain asymptomatic or manifest itself in a chronic form leading to cardiac insufficiency and megacolon. At present, there is no drug to treat the chronic stage of the disease. In this study, we have optimized a whole-cell-based assay for high throughput screening of compounds that inhibit infection of mammalian cells by trypomastigotes. A 2000-compound chemical library was screened using a recombinant parasite expressing β-galactosidase. Three hits were selected for their high activity and low toxicity to host cells in vitro: PCH1, NT1 and CX1 ( IC50: 54, 190 and 23 nM, respectively ). Each of these three compounds presents a different mechanism of action, an essential characteristic for the development of drugs against the acute and/or chronic stages of disease where parasites are found intracellular. These results provide new candidate molecules for developing of treatments against ChagAS disease and leishmaniasis.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a disfiguring and disabling tropical disease caused by parasitic filarial nematodes. It is estimated that more than 120 million people currently suffer from this mosquito-borne infection, with approximately 90% of the global LF burden causing by the parasites Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia timori. Despite this significant burden of disease, the World Health Organization has championed the development of novel methodologies capable of increasing the practicality of LF elimination efforts. Here we describe a novel diagnostic platform, which we have termed “Backpack PCR”, that uses a rapid, NaOH-based DNA extraction methodology coupled with a portable, battery powered PCR platform and a test strip based DNA detection assay. While the research reported here serves as a proof-of-concept for the backpack PCR methodology, it should increase the feasibility of molecular xenomonitoring within B. malayi-endemic locations.
Elastomeric proteins have evolved independently multiple times through evolution. Produced as monomers, they self-assemble into polymeric structures that impart properties of stretch and recoil. They are composed of an alternating domain architecture of alternating domains interspersed with cross-linking elements. While the former provide the elasticity as well as help drive the assembly process, the latter serve to stabilise the polymer. Changes in the number and arrangement of these domains have been shown to significantly impact their assembly and mechanical properties. However, to date, such studies are relatively limited. Here we present a theoretical study that uses a model of diffusion limited aggregation to simulate the formation of rod-like polymers. Applying the model to different domain architectures, we generate a variety of aggregates which are subsequently analysed by graph-theoretic metrics to predict their structural integrity. Our results show that the relative length and number of elastomersic and cross linking domains can significantly affect the morphology of the resultant polymer structure. These results may prove valuable for the tuneable design of new molecules that may be exploited as useful biomaterials.
Ebolaviruses, highly lethal zoonotic pathogens, possess longer genomes than most other non-segmented negative-sense ( NNS ) RNA viruses due in part to long 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ) present in the seven viral transcriptional units. To date, specific functions have not been assigned to these regions. With reporter assays, we demonstrated that the Zaire ebolovirus ( EBOV ) L mRNA lacks internal ribosomal entry site function, and ablation of each uAUG enhanced translation of the primary ORF ( pORF ), which is required for optimal virus replication. Most dramatically, the viral polymerase ( L ) mRNA was sufficient to initiate translation, is surrounded by a “weak” Kozak sequence and suppressed porF translation in a position-dependent manner. Under conditions where eIF2α was phosphorylated and the presence of a uOUG maintained L translation. The mutant virus also exhibited decreased viral RNA synthesis as early as 6 hours post-infection and enhanced sensitivity to the stress inducer thapsigargin. Cumulatively, these data identify novel mechanisms by which the virus regulates its mRNA expression and identify a potential therapeutic target.
Genome instability plays a key role in multiple biological processes and diseases, including cancer. Genome-wide mapping of DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) in human chromosomes is important for understanding both chromosomal architecture and specific genomic regions. We have developed a method for precise genome-scale mapping and observed non-random fragmentation of blunt-ended DNA domains. This DNA migrates mainly in the 50–250 kb range in pulsed-field agarose gels ( PFGs ), and represents all chromosomes. Our data indicate that about 30% of the domains ( denoted forum domains ) possess coordinately expressed genes and that PARP1 and HNRNPA2B1 specifically bind DNA sequences at the forum domain termini. Thus, our data suggest a novel type of gene regulation: a coordinated transcription or silencing of regulatory regions delimited by hot spots as well as binding sites.
Trypanosomatidae are parasitic uniflagellated protists that infect plants, invertebrates and vertebrates. They are restricted to insects of the orders Diptera, Hymenoptera, Siphonaptera and Hemiptera. However, heteroxenous life cycles have been reported for some, as follows: ( i ) Leptomonas seymouri observed in coinfections with Leishmania donovani in patients with visceral leishmaniasis; ( ii ) members of Herpetomona infecting plants in an HIV-positive patient; and ( iii ) a recent report of Blastocrithidia sp. infects bats in the Atlantic Forest of Rio de Janeiro state. In this study, we surveyed the diversity of trypanotid species circulating in bats from two areas with different conservation and connectivity levels. For the most preserved and larger area ( Reserva Ecológica de Guapiaçu Ecological Reserve ), there has been no indication of infection. The T. cruzi DTUs TcI and TCIV are the genotypes currently involved in cases of acute Chagas disease in Brazil, and the T. dionisii parasite was recently found in a heart tissue of an infected child. We also describe for the first time a putative parasite from insects that can potentially infect humans in studies of local biodiversity.
Ticks are the most common arthropod vectors of both human and animal diseases in Europe, and the Ixodes ricinus tick species is able to transmit a large number of bacteria, viruses and parasites. Ticks may also be co-infected with several pathogens, with a subsequent high likelihood of their transmission to humans or animals. However, few data exist regarding the extent to which tick-borne pathogens affect public health. In this study, we evaluated the prevalence of 38 pathogens and four symbionts in 267 ticks in the French Ardennes and analyzed them by high-throughput real-time PCR for the presence of 37 pathogens. Among the infected ticks, 45% were infected by at least one microorganism and up to eight microorganisms were identified. The results suggested a strong association between Borrelia garinii and B. afzelii, whereas there were no significant interactions between symbionsts and pathogens in ticks. Our study reveals high pathogen infection rates and high prevalence rates of bacterial and parasitic pathogens within the same tick.
Hematopoietic stem cell lineage choices are decided by genetic networks that are turned ON/OFF in a switch-like manner. However, prior to lineage commitment, genes are primed at low expression levels. Understanding the underlying molecular circuitry in terms of how it governs both a primed state and, at the other extreme, a committed state is of relevance not only to hematopsoiesis but also to developmental systems in general. We develop a computational model for the transcriptional decision, which is determined by a genetic switch involving the genes PU. 1 and GATA-1. Dynamical models based upon known interactions between these master genes, such as mutual antagonism and autoregulation, fail to make the system bistable. Therefore, we propose a new mechanism involving a cofactor that is regulated as well as recruited by one of the master gene to bind to the antagonistic partner. The latter pair inherits the state of its genes and further reinforces the decision due to several feedback loops, thereby leading to irreversible commitment. An interesting fallout from this architecture is that suppression of cooperativity through external means can lead to a loss of cofactors. Perturbing the feedback between master regulators and downstream targets suggests potential reprogramming strategies and could aid the search for lineage-determining genes.
Enterococcus faecalis is an opportunistic pathogen with an intrinsically high resistance to lysozyme, a key effector of the innate immune system. This high level of resistance requires a complex network of transcriptional regulators and several genes ( oatA, pgdA dltA and sigV ) acting synergistically to inhibit both the enzymatic and cationic antimicrobial peptide activities. In this study, we show that the enterococcal polysaccharide antigen ( EPA ) variable region is responsible for EPA decoration, but the role of this locus remains largely unknown. We used this quadruple mutant to carry out transposon mutagenesis and to identify additional genes involved in the regulation of EPA resistance. Collectively, our results indicate that production of a core synthetic machinery is not sufficient to promote the development of bacterial pathogenesis.
One of the most intriguing questions in molecular biology is to decipher condition-specific transcription programs in complex organisms such as human. MicroRNA ( miRNA ), a small 22 nucleotide noncoding RNA species, have been shown to play a predominant role in post-transcriptional and/or translational regulation. At the maturity of microarray/sequencing technologies, large amounts of genomic data measuring the genome-wide signals of those factors became available from Encyclopedia of DNA Elements ( ENCODE ) and The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ). However, there is a lack of an integrative model to take full advantage of these rich yet heterogeneous data. To this end, we developed RACER ( Regression Analysis of Combined Expression Regulation ) that fits the mRNA expression as response using as explanatory variables, the TF data from CNV, DM, and transcription factors ( TFs ) occupancy, as well as the cDNA methylation ( DM ) expression signals. We first infers TF/miRNA-gene interactions, which are then used as inputs to infer specific regulatory activities. Our work demonstrated a parsimonious way to extract regulatory interactions by systematically dissecting different contributors, taking into account the confounding effects from cNV and DM. Moreover, our model demonstrated its superior statistical power over existing methods in detecting known or confidence TF and TF targets.
The fungal kingdom comprises an enormous, diverse group of organisms. Although pathways have proliferated and specialized in various lineages, a core RNA silencing mechanism is conserved among plants, animals, fungi and other eukaryotes. Fungal viruses, or mycoviruses, are widespread and are pathogenic for a wide range of crop species worldwide. In the fungus Colletotrichum higginsianum, knock-out mutants affecting genes for three RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( RDR ), two Dicer-like ( DCL ) and two Argonaute ( AGO ) proteins were generated by targeted gene replacement. No effects were observed on vegetative growth for any mutant strain when grown on complex or minimal media. However, mutant strains showed severe defects in conidiation and conidia morphology. Phylogenetic analyses clearly showed a close relationship between ChNRV1 and members of the segmented Partitiviridae family, despite the non-segmented nature of their genome. Immunoprecipitation of small RNAs associated with ChDCL1 showed abundant loading of 5’U-containing viral siRNA. Based on these results, the proposed mechanism for the regulation of one or more loci of an undetermined or uncharacterized disease is proposed.
Meiosis, the process that generates haploid daughter cells, is critical for sexual reproduction in eukaryotes. The key to normal meiotic progression is the fidelity of chromosome interactions, during which homologous chromosomes undergo pairing, synapsis, recombination and proper segregation. In mammalian meiosis prophase I, three waves of H2AX phosphorylation expansion are observed, all of which are initiated and expanded through pathways that are different from those in somatic cells. Here, we report that histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) MOF is involved in the expansion of the first wave, which occurs at leptonema, while the second and third are ATR-dependent, occuring at zygonema and pachynema. MDC1 recruitment and MSCI are also disturbed in Mof deleted pachytene spermatocytes. Furthermore, though RAD51 was proficiently recruited to double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) sites, defects in crossover formation and the formation of crossovers were observed. Together, these data highlight novel roles for this protein.
HTLV-1, the only retrovirus associated with a neoplastic disease in humans, is the etiologic agent of Adult T-cell Leukaemia ( ATL ), an aggressive clonal lymphoproliferative disorder of mature CD4+ CD25+ T cells. It is considered that ATL develops after an extremely long ( several decades ) latency period, often in patients who were infected as neonates through breastfeeding, and is thought to result from malignant thymocytes arising at defined stages of intrathymic T cell development. In the present study, we investigated the in vivo effects of HTLV infection in a “Human Immune System” ( HIS ) Rag2-/-γc/- mouse model. These mice were inoculated at a time when the three main subpopulations of human αβ cells have been detected, at the expense of immature and double-positive cells; the proviral load increased with the length of the infection period. We observed efficient viral expression and profound alterations in human Thymopoiesis, as shown by the accumulation of activated CD34+ and CD8+ lymphocytes in the spleen. The role of Tax in that process is indicated by an increased expression of NF-κB-dependent genes such as bfl- 1, a anti-apoptotic gene. Finally, hepato-splenomegaly, lymphadenopathy and lymphoma/thymoma, in which Tax was detected in mice, several months after the onset of infection.
Schistosomiasis remains a major public health concern in Sudan. In 2012, the Sudanese government established a control program to reduce the prevalence of S. haematobium to less than 10% by 2013. As part of this program, a drinking water supply facility was constructed at Al Jabalain locality in the White Nile State, Sudan, where infection rate was reduced more compared to that in a neighboring village within the same unit. This study focused on the outcomes of praziquantel administraion and health education for students and residents, as well as the impacts of a filtered drinking tap facility in Al Hidaib village among integrated control project supported by the KOICA.
Nipah virus ( NiV ) is a highly pathogenic paramyxovirus that causes fatal encephalitis in humans, although the biological function associated with this nuclear localization remains obscure. Here, we report that the nuclear-cytoplasmic trafficking of the matrix protein and associated post-translational modification play a critical role in matrix-mediated virus budding. We found, quite unexpectedly, that a putative nucleocapsid ( NLS ) and the leucine-rich nuclear export signal ( NES ) found in NIPAH virus-M impaired its nuclear import/export signal and blocked viral budding, suggesting a previously unappreciated role for the NPS matrix proteins in the viral life cycle. Our results so far show that nuclear trafficking is exquisitely sensitive to proteasome inhibitors: bortezomib, an FDA-approved inhibitor for treating multiple myeloma, reduced viral titers with an IC50 of 2. 7 nM, which is 100-fold less than the peak plasma concentration that can be achieved in human. This opens up the possibility of using an “off-the-shelf” therapeutic against acute infection.
Viruses initiate infection by transferring their genetic material across a cellular membrane and into the appropriate compartment of the cell. The mechanisms by which animal viruses deliver their genomes are only poorly understood. This is due in part to technical difficulties involved in direct visualization of viral gene delivery and to uncertainties in distinguishing productive and nonproductive pathways caused by the high particle-to–plaque forming unit ratio of most animals viruses. Here, we combine an imaging assay that simultaneously tracks the viral capsid and genome in live cells with an infectivity-based assay for RNA release to characterize the early events in the poliovirus ( PV ) infection. We observe that genome release by PV is highly efficient and rapid, and thus does not limit the overall infection rate. These results settle a long-lasting debate of whether PV directly breaks the plasma membrane barrier or relies on endocytosis to deliver its genome from an intracellular organelle or vesicle.
Dengue fever continues to be a significant public health problem in Cambodia, with significant impact on children. Health education is a major means for prevention and control of the National Dengue Control Program ( NDCP ), and is delivered to communities and in schools. However, little work has been undertaken on the mode of delivery or effectiveness of routine programs. Drawing on data collected in 2003–2004 as part of an ethnographic study conducted in eastern Cambodia in the province of Kampong Cham, we explore the input, process and efficacy of community outreach, HC and school-based education. We suggest the need for sustained routine education and the use of approaches to ensure the translation of knowledge into practice.
Filarial nematodes cause chronic and profoundly debilitating diseases in both humans and animals. Applications of novel technology are providing unprecedented opportunities to improve diagnosis and our understanding of the molecular basis for host-parasite interactions. As a first step, we investigated the presence of circulating miRNAs released into the host bloodstream. miRNA deep-sequencing combined with bioinformatics revealed over 200 mature microRNA sequences in Dirofilaria immitis-infected dog plasma in two independent analyses, and 21 in Onchocerca volvulus infected human serum. Total RNA was subjected to stem-loop RT-qPCR assays targeting two detected mi RNA candidates. Additionally, Brugia pahangi samples were included in the analysis, as these species are previously detected in extracts prepared from this species. Our results indicate that parasite-derived circulating RNA are found in plasma or serum even for those species that do not live in human blood.
Tyrosine kinases are large allosteric enzymes that play a key role in cellular signaling. Conversion of the kinase from an inactive to an active state is accompanied by substantial structural changes. Here, we construct a coarse-grained model of Src catalytic domain incorporating experimental structures for the two stable states, and simulate the dynamics of conformational transitions. We explore the transition energy landscapes by constructing a structural network among clusters of structural conformations from the simulations. From this network, two major ensembles of pathways for activation are identified. In the first transition pathway we find a coordinated switching mechanism of interactions among the αC helix, the activation-loop and the β strands in the N-lobe, which is coupled to a partial unfolding of both the active and inactive states.
Postzygotic lethality of the hybrid offspring from crosses between divergent parents functions as a barrier that drives or reinforces speciation. The molecular mechanisms underlying this response, however, are not understood. We have identified variation in the rate of interploidy crosses of Arabidopsis thaliana and determined the genetic architecture of this maternally expressed variation via QTL mapping. A single large-effect gene, DR. STRANGELOVE 1 ( DSL1 ), was identified as well as two QTT with epistatic relationships to DSL 1. Maternal parents carrying loss-of-function mutations in TTG2 suppressed the frequency of fertilization and cellularization in endosperm. This suggests that maternal excess crosses could evolve rapidly.
Bats and rodents are the two most diverse and geographically widespread orders of mammals, and are important reservoirs for a growing number of emerging infectious diseases ( EIDs ) with significant impacts on public health. Over the last two decades, the majority of research on bat and rodent zoonotic diseases has focused on viral infections. The evolutionary relationships between these important mammalian hosts and their known bacterial pathogens has been little studied to date. In order to better understand the evolutionary dynamics of Bartonella and Leptospira in bats, we compiled available genetic information from bat species, rodent hosts, as well as bat hosts. We also conducted event-based cophylogeny analyses to reconstruct likely evolutionary histories for each group of pathogens and host. Our results suggest that the coevolutionary patterns and frequency of host-switching events are likely due to differences in disease-specific transmission and the host ecology.
A fundamental issue in locomotion is to understand how muscle forcing produces apparently complex deformation kinematics leading to movement of animals like undulatory swimmers. In this work, a forced damped oscillation framework is applied to a chain-link model of swimming to elucidate how forcing leads to the observed movement. We show that relatively simple forcing patterns can trigger seemingly complex and emergent forms of the body, which in turn cause the translational motion. Our results are confirmed by fully resolved computational fluid dynamics ( CFD ) simulations. Prior results from the literature on the optimal value of stiffness for maximum speed are explained.
Genetic recombination between pathogens derived from humans and livestock has the potential to create novel pathogen strains, highlighted by the influenza pandemic H1N1/09. Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense ( Tbr ) is the protist parasite responsible for the vector-borne disease, sleeping sickness ( HAT ), which is transmitted from swine, avian and human influenza A viruses to humans. Here we show that SRA is present as a single copy on one homologue of chromosome IV in the majority of strains analysed and explore the implications for human infection in East Africa.
Diabetes is caused by dysfunction to β-cells in the islets of Langerhans, disrupting insulin secretion and glucose homeostasis. Gap junction-mediated electrical coupling is a major role in coordinating a pulsatile secretory response at elevated glucose and suppressing insulin release at basal glucose. Previously, we demonstrated that a critical number of inexcitable cells can rapidly suppress the overall islet response, as a result of gap junction coupling. This was demonstrated in a murine model of Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus ( NDM ) involving expression of ATP-insensitive KATP channels, and by a multi-cellular computational model. We further extended the model to account for stochastic noise. These findings provide new understanding of how a multicellular system functions and for the role of gaps junction channels in exacerbating the effects of decreased cellular excitability.
Predicting the dynamic behavior of a large network from that of the composing modules is a central problem in systems and synthetic biology. Yet, this predictive ability is still largely missing because modules display context-dependent behavior. One cause of context dependence is retroactivity, a phenomenon similar to loading that influences in non-trivial ways the dynamics of modules upon connection to other modules. Here, we establish an analysis framework for gene transcription networks that explicitly accounts for this phenomenon. Specifically, these matrices have a physical interpretation and can be computed from macroscopic parameters ( dissociation constants and promoter concentrations ) and from the modules' topology. We illustrate implications of internal, scaling, and mixing retroactive on the performance of recurrent network motifs, including negative autoregulation, combinatorial regulation, two-gene clocks, the toggle switch and the single-input motif.
Pseudoautosomal regions ( PARs ) are segments of sequence homology between the X and Y ( or Z and W ) chromosomes, which are otherwise non-homologous. They have a critical role in meiosis in mammalian males and in the heterogametic sex in many other plant and animal species. In males, they pair up and undergo exchange of chromosomal material known as recombination or ‘crossing over’. This process is essential for the proper segregation of chromosomes into gametes, and PAR deletion results in male sterility. However, the mechanism by which this obligatory crossover occurs remains unknown. Recent research in mice has suggested that crossovers in PAR may be mediated independently of the protein PRDM9. Here, we build the most fine-scale genetic map containing directly observed crossover events in this region using African-American pedigrees. We leverage these resources to explore the role of PAR1 in fertility and disease in human populations and to infer the signatures of DNA evolution due to recombin. Further, using the genetic maps built and validated by this work will aid research on this vital and fascinating region.
In eukaryotes, the genome is organized into a highly ordered structure called chromatin, composed of DNA and histone proteins. Chromatin architecture is dynamic and regulated in part by enzymes that mediate covalent post-translational modifications of the N-terminal tails of histones. These so-called epigenetic modifications are crucial in determining cell fate decisions. Enzymes that remove methyl groups from lysine residues are highly specific for particular residues, similarly to MethylTransferases ( KMT ). The first discovered demethylase, LSD1, is a flavin-monoamine oxidase that is responsible for methylation of mono- or dimethylated Lysines ( H3K9 ) in the Myog and muscle creatine kinase ( Ckm ) genes. In this study, we identify an isoform of JMJD2A that lacks the MMT domain and is essential for this process. By using genome-wide expression profiling and exon-specific siRNA knockdown of C2C12 cells, our results indicate that, in contrast to the full-length protein, this protein is necessary for myotube formation, muscle differentiation, and gene expression. We conclude that induction of this gene is crucial for muscle development and differentiation.
Guinea worm disease ( GWD ) is caused by the parasitic worm Dracunculus medinensis, which infects people who drink water from stagnant sources containing tiny copepods ( “water fleas” ) harbouring microscopic infective larvae. Approximately one year after infection, adult female worms measuring up to one metre emerge painfully through a person’s skin. When the wound is cooled in water, the worm releases hundreds of thousands of larvae, contaminating the source and continuing the cycle of the disease. The emerging worm makes it difficult for hosts to walk, care for themselves, grow food, work or attend school, and may lead to permanent disability. Although rare today, death as a result of tetanus was not an unusual event during the early years, when the GWEP began in the 1980s. In this study, we estimate the cost of implementation, pre-certification and certification stages. We estimate cost-effectiveness against a threshold of about one half GDP per capita ( less than US$ 500 in low income countries ) in 1986–2030.
Lyme-associated spirochetes belonging to the Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato complex are the leading arthropod-borne infectious agents in the Northern hemisphere and are capable of hematogenous dissemination whereby a wide range of remote host tissues are colonized. To survive and persist in immunocompetent hosts, Lyme pathogens must evade host immune defenses including the evolutionarily ancient proteolytic cascade of innate immunity known as the complement system. Complement is a group of nearly three dozen proteins that combine to coordinate a tightly controlled set of reactions directed at target cell surfaces. In this study we investigated the function of BBK32 orthologues encoded by B. afzelii, which bind and inhibit the initiating protease of the human classical complement pathway, C1r. Our data show that the borrelial orthologue of this complex, named BAD16-C, binds and inhibits the classical pathway in all assays tested, including high-affinity binding to purified proteins and potent inhibition of its complement protective activities. The structure-function studies reported here improve our understanding and provide new insight into the mechanism of complement evasion mechanisms of Lyme-infectious Lyme.
The opportunistic human fungal pathogen Candida albicans is commonly found as a harmless commensal on the skin and mucosal surfaces of the vaginal and gastrointestinal tracts of healthy people. However, it also causes diseases that range from superficial infections that disseminate to internal organs in immunocompromised patients, to life-threatening bloodstream infections, such as oral thrush. A key aspect of this transformation is the capability to grow in both budding yeast and hyphal forms and is tolerated by the host immune system. In this study, we have identified the transcription factor Cdc28 and the cell wall biosynthesis kinase Cbk1, in a role distinct from its conserved function in cell cycle progression. We show that the phosphorylation profile is required for the expression of genes involved in pathogenesis, host interaction and biofilm formation. This transformation does not occur when stationary phase cells are reinoculated into fresh medium supporting yeast growth. Instead, these changes in gene expression resulted in corresponding defects in the development of pathogenic processes.
Trypanosoma brucei is an extracellular parasite that replicates in the blood in early stages of infection leading to progressive neurological complications that disrupt the sleep/wake cycle and which eventually progress to coma and death. New drugs for the treatment of all three diseases are badly needed, but control is hampered by lack of good drugs, drug resistance and challenges in drug administration. Thymidine kinase ( TK ) catalyzes the formation of dTMP and dUMP and is one of several salvage enzymes that appear redundant to the de novo pathway. Surprisingly, we show through genetic studies that T K is essential for growth and for infectivity in a mouse model, and that a catalytically active enzyme is required for its function. We also show that an HD-domain protein related to a well-characterized bacterial 5’-nucleotidase is able to catalyze this reaction. Our data suggest that the absence of DCTD may be a shared vulnerability, presenting a potential opportunity to selectively target a diverse group of pathogenic single-celled eukaryotes with a single drug.
The initiation of translation is a fundamental and highly regulated process in gene expression. Translation initiation in prokaryotic systems usually requires interaction between the ribosome and an mRNA sequence upstream of the initiation codon. However, a large number of genes do not possess Shine-Dalgarno sequences, and it is unknown how the correct translation initiation site is recognized in these mRNAs. Here we have performed genome-wide searches in various groups of proteins in order to identify sequence elements and/or RNA secondary structural motifs that could mediate protein biosynthesis. We find that mRNA structure at the mRNA level is generally less structured in their translational initiation region and show a minimum of mRNA folding. Using reporter gene constructs in bacteria, we also provide experimental support for local RNA unfoldedness determining start-codon recognition in RNA-binding proteins. Consistent with this, our bioinformatics analyses and experimental data suggest that local absence of RNA tertiary structure is necessary and sufficient to initiate RNA–dependent translation. Thus, these results provide a plausible mechanism for how mRNA is translated at high efficiency.
Post Kala-Azar Dermal Leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) occurs in up to 10% of patients treated for visceral leishmania ( VL ) in India. It is for this reason that MSF and the WHO currently only use Ambisome rather than other preparations. However it is urgent that clear regulatory guidelines for endemic countries be established by a normative setting organisation like the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and other existing formulations be formally evaluated. In this study, we describe the characteristics of the patients who re-attended the programme with confirmed and/or non-inferiority cases following treatment with oral liposomal amphotericin B. This study was conducted in Bihar, India, an area highly endemic for Vl, and was run in coordination with the State Health Society through a memorandum of understanding, which is the usual procedure for NGOs operating in this context.
Trypanosoma cruzi is the causative agent of Chagas disease in the Americas. It is currently unknown what spatial and temporal pattern of repeated insecticide application maximizes its efficiency. This knowledge cannot be gained in laboratory studies but instead requires analyzing field data that cover the spatial range of T. infestans dispersal and the temporal range. In this study we show how continuous- and discrete-time models fitted to patch-level infestation states can elucidate different aspects of re-establishment. Different methods of estimating the probabilities of bug establishment on each site were compared. The results confirmed previous results showing a 6-month time lag between detection of a new insectestation and dispersals events. Our analysis showed that more new bug populations become established from May to November than from November to May, and that this seasonal increase in insect establishment coincides with a seasonal decrease in spatial distance.
Polyomaviruses are small, nonenveloped, DNA-containing viruses that establish persistent infections in susceptible hosts and induce tumors under certain conditions. Little is known of the patterns and dynamics of acute and chronic infections by polyomsavirus in vivo, except that kidneys appear to be a common site of long-term persistence. Simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) has served as a model cancer virus and has revealed many insights into fundamental cell processes and basic mechanisms of cell transformation. In addition, viruses with complex regulatory regions have been linked with disease, especially in immunocompromised hosts. Here, we report the first evidence of expression and function of polyoma virus microRNA in hamsters. Viral microRNAs are predicted to play a role in the pathogenesis of viral infections.
Genome-wide scans for positively selected genes ( PSGs ) in mammals have provided insight into the dynamics of genome evolution, the genetic basis of differences between species, and the functions of individual genes. However, previous scans have been limited in power and accuracy owing to small numbers of available genomes. Here we present the most comprehensive examination of positive selection in mammalian genomes to date, using the six high-coverage genome assemblies now available for eutherian mammals. The increased phylogenetic depth of this dataset results in substantially improved statistical power, which permits several new lineage- and clade-specific tests to be applied. Of ∼16, 500 human genes with high confidence orthologs in at least two other species ( >97% average identity ), 400 genes showed significant evidence of selection ( FDR<0. 05 ) according to a standard likelihood ratio test. A novel Bayesian analysis of the possible “selection histories” of each gene indicated that most genes have switched multiple times between positive and nonselection. Genes that are specifically expressed in the spleen, testes, liver and breast are significantly enriched for these genes, but no evidence was found for an enrichment for PSG among brain-related genes in this study.
Staphylococcus aureus is the causative agent of numerous diseases ranging from relatively benign skin conditions to fatal systemic infections. Persistent infections often involve surface-associated communities called biofilms. Here we report the discovery of a novel extracellular fibril structure that promotes S. bacillus biofilm integrity. These fibers have amyloid-like properties and consist of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins ( PSMs ). Mutants unable to produce PSM were susceptible to disassembly by matrix degrading enzymes and mechanical stress. Previous work has shown that soluble PS proteins have a helical structure in solution, but transition to adopt a more β-rich structure after aggregation. This work suggests that the aggregation of these peptide aggregates modulates their biological activity.
Trypanosoma cruzi parasite, the causative agent of Chagas disease, infects about six million individuals in more than 20 countries. Monitoring parasite persistence in infected individuals is of utmost importance to develop and evaluate treatments to control the disease. Currently the main criterion to establish treatment success is the reversion of the conventional serology from positive to negative status in association with negative results on parasitological tests ( xenodiagnosis and/or heamoculture, or PCR-based parasite assays ). However, PCR testing to monitor spontaneous or therapy-induced cure has limitations due to the low and fluctuating parasitic load in circulating blood. The aim of this study is to evaluate a newly developed antibody profiling assay, an array of fifteen optimized antigens, as an indirect method to assess the treatment efficacy of chronic and benznidazole-treated patients. One specific antibody response ( antibody 3, Ab3 ) showed a strong correlation with T. parasites persistence as determined by PCR positive results. High and sustained antibody signal was strongly associated with PCR positivity in untreated patients, whereas significant decline in antibody signals was observed in BZN treated patients who cleared parasitemia based on blood PCR. Thus, a simple immunoassay measurement of antibody3 could be beneficial for monitoring the infectious status of seropositive patient.
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is a globally re-emerging arthropod-transmitted virus that acutely causes fever as well as severe joint and muscle pain. Chronic musculoskeletal pain persists in a substantial fraction of patients for months to years after the initial infection, yet we still have a poor understanding of what promotes chronic disease. To identify the cells that might contribute to pathogenesis during this chronic phase, we developed a recombinant recombinase that replicates in myoblasts and fibroblasts, and it induced arthritis during the acute phase in mice. Importantly, it also induced chronic diseases, including persistent viral RNA and chronic myositis and synovitis similar to wild-type virus. This model represents a useful tool for studying the host determinants of disease and to determine why the immune response cannot clear this persistent RNA.
Neural mechanisms underlying decision-making are typically unknown during in vivo recordings, and it is unclear how these results relate to the underlying network structure. We address these questions by applying factor analysis to recordings in the visual cortex of non-human primates and to spiking network models that self-generate irregular activity through a balance of excitation and inhibition. In this work, we compared the scaling trends of two key outputs of dimensionality reduction—shared dimensionally and percent shared variance—with neuron and trial counts and compared these outputs with the number of neurons and trials that are recorded. Our results show that the results obtained using a limited sampling of the recorded neurons are more consistent than the clustered network. Furthermore, recordings from tens of cells were sufficient to identify the dominant modes of shared variability that generalize to larger portions of a network, which can help guide the interpretation of dimensions in regimes of limited neuron sampling. These findings can be used to help understand the neural circuits underlying brain function and help relate the outputs to neural networks.
Host-pathogen interactions are characterized by an antagonistic interplay between bacterial and host factors. The overall success of a pathogen depends on the efficacy of its virulence factors, anti-immune weapons, and the immune status of the host. Bacterial quorum sensing ( QS ) is a communication system widely utilized by bacteria to perceive and promote collective behaviors that depend on population density signaling. However, whether microbes utilize these immunomodulatory signals to maintain infection remain unclear. Here, we show that the Pseudomonas aeruginosa qS-regulated molecule 2-amino acetophenone ( 3-AA ) modulates host immune responses in a manner that increases host ability to cope with this opportunistic bacterium. Mice treated with 1-A1 prior to infection had a 90% survival rate compared to 10% rate observed in the non-pretreated infected mice. We also found that pretreatment of mice with the 2AA molecule attenuates immune response activation, leading to activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases ( MAPKs ), nuclear factor ( NF ) -κB and pro-inflammatory cytokines. These kinase changes lead to CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein-β ( c/EBPβ ) activation and formation of an extracellular regulated complex that prevents NF-κ- activation. Our results suggest that 2 A1's aptitude for dampening the inflammatory processes while increasing host survival and pathogenic persistence concurs with its ability for bacterial pathogens to switch to a chronic infection mode.
Retroelements have profoundly shaped mammalian genomes over millions of years. Insertion of these selfish elements can lead to gene inactivation or changes in transcriptional profiles of neighboring genes. Moreover, the presence of large stretches of almost identical sequence distributed across the genome poses recombinational hazards, leading to chromosomal rearrangements, often with pathological consequences. The retrotransposition activity of retroelements can occasionally drive dramatic episodes of adaptation through the generation of genetic novelty. In contrast to the expectation that L1TD1 would be an essential gene if it had been domesticated for its function in mammalian pluripotency, we trace the origin and evolution of the LINE-1 gene. We find that this gene originated in the common ancestor of eutherian mammals, but was lost or pseudogenized multiple times during mammalian evolution, and that one prokaryote ( Pteropus vampyrus ) has ‘replenished’ itself with a more recent retroelement from the prosimian genome. Our study highlights the role of functional novelty, perhaps for a role in genome defense.
Vibrio cholerae is the causative agent of cholera, a potentially lethal diarrheal disease that remains an important global health problem, having caused seven pandemics since 1817. The ability to adapt to environmental changes is particularly important for pathogens during invasion of the host. Bacterial adaptation is often mediated through modulation of gene expression at the post-transcriptional level, which in term is regulated by ribonucleases ( RNases ) that act either directly on their target mRNAs or in conjunction with regulatory RNAs. Here, we show that YbeY, an essential endoribonuclease, is essential for virulence, stress regulation, RNA processing and ribosome quality control, and is part of a core set of RNase essential in most representative pathogens. To understand its function and to gain further insight into the role of this important protein in human pathogenesis, our comparative analysis of several distantly related pathogens can fully complement an E. coli Δybe Y strain under various stress conditions.
Many developmental, physiological, and behavioral processes depend on the precise expression of genes in space and time. Such spatiotemporal gene expression phenotypes arise from the binding of sequence-specific transcription factors ( TFs ) to DNA, which regulate nearby genes that such binding causes. TFNs are directed networks where each TF may have both incoming and outgoing connections. We know very little about how a TFN's assortativity signature affects the robustness of its expression phenotype to genetic and environmental perturbation. Here, we use publicly available DNaseI-seq data to measure the expression profiles of 41 recently elaborated human transcription factor networks. Our results show that the four different components of the signature differ from those expected at random, resulting in a signature for each of these four components. These findings suggest that increasing one specific component of a regulatory network's signature leads to increased phenotypic strength. However, the biological context of this finding is currently limited because the assortsativity signatures of real-world regulatory networks have not been characterized. It is therefore unclear whether these earlier theoretical findings are biologically relevant. Moreover, it is not known how the other three components also contribute to the phenotype.
A fundamental goal in neuroscience is to understand the complex mechanisms by which populations of inhibitory ( INH ) and excitatory ( EXC ) neocortical neurons collectively encode stimulus-related information is a fundamental, yet still unresolved question. Here we address this question by simultaneously recording with large-scale multi-electrode arrays ( of up to 128 channels ) the activity of cell ensembles distributed along all layers of 3–4 neighboring cortical columns in the anesthetized adult rat somatosensory barrel cortex in vivo. Using two different whisker stimulus modalities ( location and frequency ) we show that individual neurons – classified as such according to their distinct extracellular spike waveforms – discriminate better between restricted sets of stimuli in granular and infra-granular layers ( ≤6 stimulus classes ). We also demonstrate that the ~20% most informative neurons jointly provide as much information about such stimuli, however presenting less information redundancy – a result which was consistent when applying both theoretical information measurements and linear discriminant analysis classifiers. These results suggest that a consortium of neurons dominates the information conveyed to the neocortexical network, thereby efficiently processing incoming sensory activity.
Synthetic biology aims at ( re- ) programming living cells like computers to perform new functions for a variety of applications. Initial work rested on transcription factors, but regulatory RNAs have recently gained much attention due to their high programmability. In this work, we report the engineering of a fundamental arithmetic logic unit based on de novo riboregulation to sum two bits of information encoded in molecular concentrations. Our designer circuit robustly performs the intended computation in a living cell encoding the result as fluorescence amplitudes.
Cytosolic 5′-nucleotidase II ( cN-II ) regulates the intracellular nucleotide pools within the cell by catalyzing the dephosphorylation of 6-hydroxypurine nucleoside 5’-monophosphates. The main advantage of this series of analogues resides in the presence of its phosphotransferase activity ( transfer of a phosphate group from a phosphorylated nucleoide to another nucleotide ) and one would expect a full inhibition of the activity upon binding to the phosphonate analogue. Here, we focused our attention to β-modified phosphonicates in which a polar group ( i. e. hydroxyl function ) was introduced to mimic the 5-oxygen atom present in a natural and labile phosphoester ( phosphorus-carbon ) bond. These compounds were shown to induce a total inhibition at 2 mM. Altogether, this study emphasizes the importance of non-Hydrolysable phosphate bond and the crucial hydrophobic stacking promoted by three protein residues.
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies ( TSE ), or prion disease, are fatal neurodegenerative disorders occurring in sheep, cattle, and humans. In the past few months, evidence for the transmission of scrapie to lambs, via colostrum/milk, has become a priority based on both the eradication of food producing animals and the exclusion of known infectious materials from the food chain. Because investigations carried out as early as the 1960's failed to reveal evidence of the presence of prions in milk from affected ruminants, this product has continuously been considered as safe. However, more recently, disease associated Prion protein ( PrPSc ) accumulation was detected, by immunohistochemistry and PET blot, in lacteal ducts and mammary acini. Infectivity could be detected only in ewes harbouring mammaries ectopic lymphoid follicles that developed consequent to Maedi lentivirus infection. Here we report the detection of consistent levels of infectivity in both milk and colastrum, not only from ewe with such lympho-proliferative chronic mastitis, but also from those displaying lesion-free breast glands. Our results raise the possibility that dairy products originating from transmissible SSE-susceptible dairy species could contribute to the animal transmission process.
An outbreak of Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) in Liberia began in March 2014 and ended in January 2016. Epidemiological information was collected and managed nationally; however, collection and management of the data were challenging at the time because surveillance and reporting systems malfunctioned during the outbreak. Here we present data on 16, 370 laboratory samples that were tested between April 4, 2014, March 29, 2015. A total of 10, 536 traceable individuals were identified, of whom 3, 897 were confirmed cases. There were significant differences in sex, age, and place of residence between confirmed and suspected cases that tested negative for EBOV RNA. Age ( young children and the elderly ) were the risk factors for death due to the disease. The case fatality rate decreased from 80% to 63% in the study period. These findings may help support future investigations and lead to a fuller understanding of how the Ebola outbreak occurred.
Tyrosinase ( EC 1. 14. 18. 1 ), a copper-containing monooxygenase, catalyzes the conversion of phenol to the corresponding ortho-quinone through the formation of the μ-η2-peroxy-dicopper and Cu ( II ) -dopasemiquinone intermediates. Until now—despite extensive studies for the catalytic mechanism, which is based on the crystallographic analysis, low-molecular-weight models, and computer simulations—the catalyst mechanism has been unable to be made clear at an atomic level. In the present study, the crystal structures were determined at very high resolutions. The structures suggest the existence of an important step for this reaction that has not yet been found.
The yeast large ribosomal subunit, the first pre-60S particle, contains 30 assembly factors ( AFs ), including 8 RNA helicases, presumed to drive conformational rearrangements. The mechanisms by which they are targeted to their correct substrate in vitro and their precise molecular roles remain largely unknown. We demonstrate that the Dbp6p helicase, essential for the normal accumulation and maturation of the yeast first-producible precursor, is involved in the formation and/or clustering of root helices of large subunits rRNAs. Npa1p, Nop8p and Rsa3p form the backbone of a complex that associates with a core complex formed by two additional members of this complex. By tandem affinity purifications using yeast extracts depleted of one component of our complex, we show that both members form a backbone and are essential to the stability of 25S rRNA and the control of snoRNA-pre-rRNA interactions.
The ability to adapt to a changing world requires the updating of beliefs in response to unexpected events that signal potential environmental change. However, the brain mechanisms, and in particular the neuromodulators, involved in this process are still largely unknown. Here, we report evidence for a role of the human catecholamine systems in learning-rate regulation, using a well-established ‘predictive-inference’ task that provides direct measures of prediction error and learning rate on each trial. We found that the electroencephalogram ( EEG )—an electrophysiological index of outcome-evoked phasic release in the cortex—predicted the degree to which a new outcome influences existing beliefs. Furthermore, a pharmacological manipulation of this activity affected learning rates following unanticipated task changes, in a way that depended on the participants' baseline learning level. Our findings provide converging evidence of a causal role for the humans in adjusting their beliefs to the unexpectedness of an outcome and the uncertainty of their preexisting belief.
Infectious diseases still represent a major challenge for humanity in the 21st century, especially because i ) we still discover more and more possible pathogens with new technologies, ii ) pathogens are naturally evolving, leading to the emergence or re-emergence of pathogens, iii ) people and resources are moving and exchanging faster and faster around the world, which directly affects the ecosystems, and iv ) their appearance and disappearance in different human populations cannot be reliably modeled. Facing this situation, various strategies have been developed worldwide and over the time to try to monitor infectious diseases and pathogens. Among the most innovative improvements made can be particularly mentioned Point-Of-Care ( POC ) laboratories in Senegal. In parallel, a homemade syndromic surveillance system called EPIMIC ( for EPIdemiological surveillance and alert based on MICrobiological data ) was implemented in two villages in rural Saloum region of Senegal using the data routinely produced by these laboratories. The aim of this study is to describe the implementation ad results of EPIMEIC in a developing country. Although some improvements are still needed, the project has been successfully spread using data generated by two point-of-care laboratory-based surveys and surveillance systems.
A key feature of multicellular systems is the ability of cells to function collectively in response to external stimuli. However, the mechanisms of intercellular cell signaling and their functional implications in diverse vascular structures are poorly understood. Using a combination of computational modeling and plasma lithography micropatterning, we investigate the roles of structural arrangement of endothelial cells in collective calcium signaling. We show that the calcium oscillation depends on the number of neighboring cells coupled via gap junctional intercellsular communication ( GJIC ), providing a mechanistic basis of the architecture-dependent calcium signal. Furthermore, our results suggest that cells can sense and respond to chemical stimuli according to the vascular architecture.
Respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) is the major cause of lower respiratory tract disease among infants and children globally. However, the relative contribution of F and G specific antibodies to protection in vivo is not completely understood. In the current study, we generated gene fragment phage display libraries ( GFPDL ) for the attachment glycoprotein G to elucidate the complete antibody epitope repertoire in serum samples from infants either prior to ( <9 months ) or post-RSV infection. The G-reactive epitopes spanned the N- and C-termini of G ectodomain, in addition to the central conserved domain ( CCD ). We evaluated the immunogenicity, neutralization and protective efficacy of all antigenic regions of attachment protein ( G ) following primary infection using recombinant E. coli expressed attachment proteins. Vaccinated mice were challenged intranasally with the virus-A2 Line 19F. Viral replication in nasal cavity and lungs was significantly reduced in vaccinated animals compared to unimmunized controls. Control of viral loads in the lungs and Th2/Th1 cytokine ratios were found in REG ΔCCD vaccinated mice after challenge. These data demonstrate the presence of multiple protective sites in G G protein outside of the C CD that could contribute to development of a bacterially produced unglycosylated Gprotein as safe and effective vaccine against RSv disease.
During embryonic development, a number of genetic cues act to generate neuronal diversity. While intrinsic transcriptional cascades are well-known to control neuronal sub-type cell fate, the target cells can also provide critical input to specific neuronal cell fates. One salient example of such target-derived instructive signals pertains to the specification of the Drosophila FMRFamide neuropeptide neurons. In this study, we focus on the function of brr2 and its putative role in RNA processing in the acquisition of Tv4 neuronal fate. This control is fulfilled by two independent mechanisms, both of which are required for the activation of BMP retrograde signaling pathway: ( 1 ) correct axonal pathfinding to a target tissue, essential to receive the bMP ligand and, ( 2 ) specific RNA splicing of two genes involved in TGF-β receptor signaling pathways: the thickveins ( tkv ) gene, encoding a receptor subunit, and Medea ( co-Smad ). These results reveal involvement of specific RNAs in diversifying neuronal identity within the central nervous system.
Ubiquitin is covalently linked to substrates in a multistep process that requires coordinated action of 3 classes of enzymes- E1, E2, and E3 ubiquitins ligases. Unbalanced levels can lead to sequestration of CRL core components by a few overabundant substrate receptors. Numerous diseases, including cancer, have been associated with misregulation of substrate receptor components, particularly for the largest class of proteins, the F-box proteins. One relevant mechanism that controls the abundance of their substrate proteins is autocatalytic ubiquitylation by intact SCF complex followed by proteasome-mediated degradation. Here we describe an additional pathway for regulation of protein degradation on the example of yeast Met30. Unexpectedly, this pathway required the cullin component Cdc53/Cul1 but was independent of Skp1. We demonstrated that this non-canonical degradation pathway is critical for chromosome stability and effective defense against heavy metal stress. More importantly, our results assign important biological functions to a sub-complex of cullins-RING ligase that comprises Cd53 and Rbx1/Csdc34, but is independent from the other central protein component, ScF.
Kinesin-3 motors drive the long-distance transport of synaptic vesicles and other membrane-bound organelles in neuronal cells. In the absence of cargo, motor activity is kept inactive to prevent motility and ATP hydrolysis. Current models state that the motor KIF1A is monomeric in the inactive state and that activation results from concentration-driven dimerization on the cargo membrane. Unexpectedly, we found that both native and expressed proteins are dimeric, suggesting a simple model for activation of kinesins by cargo binding. We also show that kinein motors are autoinhibited by two distinct inhibitory mechanisms. Thus, cargo-induced dimers are not a valid model. Rather, our results provide support for an autoinshibition mechanism.
The domestication of tomato, as of many other crop plants, is coupled to the erosion of its genetic variability. Strategies based on the exploitation of natural variation are being extensively employed in an effort to reintroduce the lost genetic variation into cultivated species, including tomato [7], rapeseed, wheat, barley, maize, soybean, and pepper. The utility of advanced genetic populations to study the genetic basis of metabolic traits in plants has been demonstrated by the generation and analysis of a set of 76 introgression lines ( ILs ) in tomato. In this study, we analyzed the metabolite contents of dry tomato seeds from two consecutive harvests. We identified the main factor for metabolic polymorphism to be the genotypic background rather than the environment or the tissue. Analysis of the coefficient of variance indicated that the seed metabolic network played a central hub-like role, maintaining high interactions with other metabolites, i. e., sugars and organic acids. Network analysis identified six exceptionally highly co-regulated amino acids, Gly, Ser, Thr, Ile, Val and Pro. Taken together these results ( i ) reflect the extensive redundancy of seed metabolism with respect to fruit metabolism, ( ii ) emphasize the centrality of this amino acid module in the seeds metabolic networks.
Vibrio cholerae is a Gram-negative bacterial pathogen that causes excessive watery diarrhea in humans. In aquatic environments, attachment to fish, crustacea and algae enables the bacteria to obtain nutrients, thereby providing a competitive advantage compared to other free-swimming bacteria. Adherence to these different niches involves an N-acetylglucosamine binding protein ( GbpA ) that has been reported to mediate bacterial attachment of both marine chitin and mammalian intestinal mucin through an unknown molecular mechanism. We have studied the molecular basis of the function of this protein, using a combination of X-ray crystallography and small angle Xray scattering, revealing an unusual, elongated four-domain fold. Bacterial binding studies show that domains 2 and 3 bind to the bacterial surface. Finally, mouse virulence assays reveal that only the first three domains of GpA are required for bacterial colonization. These results explain how the protein provides structural/functional modular interactions between V. cholae, intestinal epithelium, and host surfaces, both in the marine environment and the mammalian host.
Chronic T cell activation is a hallmark of pulmonary tuberculosis ( PTB ) infection. The mechanisms underpinning this important phenomenon are however, poorly elucidated, though known to rely on control of T effector cells ( Teff ) by regulatory T cells. Our studies show that circulating natural Treg cells in adults with TB preserve their suppressive potential but T-cells from such subjects are resistant to suppression. We found this to be due to expansion of an activated subset identified by Human Leukocyte Antigen ( HLA ) -DR expression. Sensitivity of suppression was restored to control levels by depletion of this subset. Comparative transcriptome analysis revealed putative resistance mechanisms linked to IFNG, IL17A and IL22, PD-L1 and β-chemokines CCL3L3, CCD4 expression, and Th1/Th17 cytokines. In addition, we found that activated cells from these subjects expressed significantly higher levels of cytokine signaling molecules that may regulate the immune response through a reciprocal counter-balancing relationship. Taken together, our study provides novel insight on how activated T immune cells may contribute to disease associated inflammation by compromising the suppression of the T T response.
Prions, the causative agents of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, contain as their main component PrPSc, a multimeric conformer of the ubiquitous host protein PrPC, which accumulates mainly in intracellular compartments. Mice expressing prPC without GPI anchor ( tgGPI- mice ), are susceptible to prion infection but accumulate anchorless prions extra-, rather than extracellularly. We found that RML and ME7, but not 22L Prions propagated in wild-type brain developed novel cell tropisms, as determined by the Cell Panel Assay ( CPA ). Surprisingly, proteinase K ( PK )-resistant PrPs ( PrPres ) were stably maintained even after three passages, suggesting that the two conformations are separated by a high activation energy barrier.
The Bone Morphogenetic Protein ( BMP ) signaling pathway is used repeatedly throughout development to regulate a diverse array of processes. In this study, using the Drosophila embryo as a model, we combine RNA-seq with Mad and Brinker ChIP-sequencing to decipher the transcriptional network underpinning differentiation of the dorsal ectoderm during dorsal-ventral axis patterning. We identify multiple new target genes, including positive and negative regulators of EGF signaling, and find widespread binding of insulator proteins to the Mad/Brinker-bound genomic regions. Analysis of embryos lacking the BEAF-32 Insulator protein shows reduced transcription of a peak target gene and a reduction in the number of amnioserosa cells, the fate specified by peak signaling. Our findings provide insight into the mechanism by which neurons are activated and repressed during embryonic development.
In Tunisia, zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania major is increasing and spreading from the south-west to new areas in the center. It is largely recognized that the population structure of pathogens is influenced by different evolutionary factors, particularly during invasion of new ecosystems. However, it is not known how their geographical distribution and temporal emergence affected the genetic structure and evolution of Tunisian L. major populations, mainly because multi-locus enzyme electrophoresis ( MLEE ), which has been widely used for phylogenetic typing of parasites, does not discriminative enough. This study provides new insights into the evolution and spread of the parasite flow between geographically and temporally distinct populations. The genotype analysis also suggests previous ( Bayesian model-based approach ) and current flows of genotypes between governorates and districts. Human activities as well as reservoir dynamics and the effects of environmental changes could explain how the disease progresses.
The neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) are a group of parasitic and bacterial infections that are associated with substantial global disease and disability, particularly in low income communities. Mass drug administration ( MDA ), or the presumptive treatment of all at risk individuals with preventive chemotherapy, is used to control helminth associated morbidity in endemic areas. However, water, sanitation, and hygiene ( WASH ) interventions may also be important for reducing transmission. In this study, we evaluated the impact of different potential intervention packages on infection prevalence, including repeated treatment with albendazole and praziquantel with and without the control of STH and schistosomiasis. We conducted secondary analyses using a manual forward stepwise model building approach to identify if there are packages of interventions that may be protective against an infection of any species ( combined outcome ) and each of these species individually.
Bacteriocins are proteins that bind to specific lipopolysaccharide moieties and insert their core structure through the cell envelope, causing depolarization of the cytoplasmic membrane. A major strategy in niche colonization is the production of growth inhibitors or toxins directed at microbial competitors. While a huge variety of secondary metabolites is used to target phylogenetically-distant competitors, ribosome-synthesized peptides or proteins are typically active against close relatives, and may either be released into the environment or transferred to the host via specialized contact-dependent delivery systems. Examples of such interplay have been reported not only between unrelated microorganisms, but also between distant relatives ( e. g. members of different bacterial genera [3] ) and even between close relative relatives. This is reflected in the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas putida. Here we report on the crystal structure of LlpABW as the prototype of a novel family of antibacterial proteins and explore how domain architecture and specific structural elements contribute to its activity and specificity.
Sporulation in Bacillus subtilis involves two cells that follow separate but coordinately regulated developmental programs. Late in sporulation, the developing spore ( the forespore ) resides within a mother cell. The regulation of the transcription factor σG that acts at this stage has remained enigmatic. In this study, we show that eight mother-cell proteins encoded in the spoIIIA operon are required for the activity of transcription factors. Several of these proteins share similarity with components of specialized secretion systems. One of them resembles a secretion ATPase and we demonstrate that the ATPases motifs are necessary to maintain a protective coat. Importantly, our results support a model in which the SpoiiIA-SpoIIQ proteins form a novel secretion apparatus that allows the mother cells to nurture and nurture the spores.
Bipolar disorder ( BD ) is a highly heritable and disabling disorder affecting approximately 1% of the population. Patients with BD suffer extreme mood swings between mania and depression, and 17% suicide. We present new genotype data for 1, 190 cases and 401 controls and perform a genome-wide association study including additional samples for a total of 2, 191 patients and 1, 434 controls. To demonstrate that this result is not likely to be a false positive, we analyze replication rates in a large meta-analysis of height and show that, within BD, SNPs near exons exhibit a greater probability of replication, supporting an enrichment of reproducible associations near functional regions of genes. These results indicate that there is likely common genetic variation that could be identified in larger studies and, further, provide a framework for assessing the potential for replication when combining results from multiple studies.
Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide and it is estimated that 12. 7 million new cancer cases and 7. 6 million cancer deaths occurred in 2008. One of the hallmarks of cancer is uncontrolled cellular proliferation. In an attempt to find new anti-cancer drug targets, various studies in recent years used short hairpin RNA ( shRNA ) techniques and screened thousands of genes to identify those that are essential for cancer growth and proliferation and are therefore putative targets for clinical intervention in cancer. While this approach was shown to be powerful for the analysis of biological processes, it has several limitations such as off-target effects, partial knockdown, and masking effects due to functional backups. Here we employ a complementary approach and assign each gene a cancer Proliferation Index ( cPI ) that quantifies the association between its expression levels and growth rate measurements across 60 cancer cell lines. Reassuringly, genes found essential in the cancer gene knock-down screens exhibit significant positive and negative CPI values, while tumor suppressors exhibit significantly negative values. A cross species comparison reveals that cancer proliferation resembles that of microorganisms while cancerous proliferation does not. These results highlight genes in translation and spliceosome machineries as selective tumor proliferation-associated proteins. Overall, these results point to an inherent difference between cancer and non-cancerous cell proliferation determinants, whose understanding may contribute to the future development of novel cancer-specific drugs.
Cystic echinococcosis ( CE ) can affect the heart and the vena cava but few cases are reported. A retrospective case series of 11 patients with cardiac and/or endovascular CE, followed-up over a period of 15 years ( 1995–2009 ), was performed. Main clinical manifestations included thoracic pain or dyspnea, although 2 patients were asymptomatic. Cysts were located mostly in the right atrium and inferior vava. Two patients died 10 and 14 years after diagnosis, due to pulmonary embolism ( PE ) and cardiac failure, respectively. Patients who had cardiac involvement exclusively did not have complications after surgery and were considered cured. There was only one recurrence requiring a second operation. Cardiovascular CE is associated with a high risk of potentially lethal complications. Clinical manifestations and complications vary according to cyst location. Isolated cardiac CE may be cured after heart surgery, while the risk factors for emboli ( bed rest, smoking and chronic venous insufficiency ) could not be ascertained. CE should be included in differential diagnosis of cardiovascular disease in patients from endemic areas.
Toll/interleukin-1 receptor ( TIR ) domains in Toll-like receptors are essential for initiating and propagating the eukaryotic innate immune signaling cascade. In the present work, we investigate TirS, a Staphylococcus aureus tIR mimic that is part of a novel bacterial invasion mechanism. Our results show that the tirS gene is invariably located within the chromosomal cassettes ( SCC ) containing the fusC gene and co-located with the mecA ( for the MRSA strains ) antibiotic resistance genes. Interestingly, sub-inhibitory concentration of Fusidic acid induced overexpression of this effector, confirming a central role in virulence attenuation through local inflammatory responses. Thus, two key traits determining the success and spread of bacterial infections are linked.
Evolutionary innovations can be driven by spatial and temporal changes in gene expression. Several such differences have been documented in the embryos of lower and higher Diptera. One example is the reduction of the ancient extraembryonic envelope composed of amnion and serosa as seen in mosquitoes and fruit flies. We used transcriptional datasets collected during the embryonic development of fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, and the malaria mosquito, Anopheles gambiae, to search for whole-genome changes that could be clustered based on the presence of coincident discordances in their temporal expression profiles. In particular, we found that a cluster of maternally expressed genes is redeployed later in development at the time of cuticle synthesis, consistent with the evolution of a sharp maternal-to-zygotic transition.
Haemophilus ducreyi and Treponema pallidum subsp. pertenue are major causes of leg ulcers in children in Africa and the Pacific Region. We investigated the presence of DNA ( PCR positivity ) from these bacteria on asymptomatic people, flies, and household linens in an endemic setting in Papua New Guinea during a yaws elimination campaign. Our results showed that 20% of children living in the H. dukrei-endemic communities had detectable DNA on the skin. These children had no evidence of cutaneous ulceration or no other symptoms or signs of infection. Notably, people from households without a case were similar to people exposed to an infectious case in their community, such as in school. Hence, a member of a household without the case should still have been exposed, even if he or she is not infected.
Bioinformatics is recognized as part of the essential knowledge base of numerous career paths in biomedical research and healthcare. However, there is little agreement in the field over what that knowledge entails or how best to provide it. These disagreements are compounded by the wide range of populations in need of training, with divergent prior backgrounds and intended application areas. The Curriculum Task Force ( ISCB ) Education Committee has sought to create a framework for training needs and curricula in terms of a set of core competencies that cut across many user personas and training programs. We have developed a series of use cases illustrating the current status and application of these core skills and to highlight how they are being applied in diverse training contexts.
The infectious form of many parasitic nematodes, which afflict over one billion people globally, is a developmentally arrested third-stage larva ( L3i ). This life cycle allows us to investigate the mechanisms underlying different developmental fates for similar larval forms. We hypothesized that homologous pathways are present in S. stercoralis, have similar developmental regulation, and are involved in L 3i arrest and activation. To test this, we undertook a deep-sequencing study of the polyadenylated transcriptome, generating over 2. 3 billion paired-end reads from seven developmental stages. In comparison to C. elegans, there are a paucity of genes encoding insulin/IGF-1-like signaling ( IIS ), transforming growth factor β ( TGFβ ) signaling, or biosynthesis of dafachronic acid ( DA ) ligands that regulate a nuclear hormone receptor. Our data suggest that while dauer pathway genes may play a role in the development of this developmental stage, they are not coordinately regulated.
Cells are frequently exposed to bacterial genotoxins involved in digestive cancers, colibactin and Cytolethal Distending Toxin ( CDT ), the latter being secreted by many pathogenic bacteria. Our aim was to evaluate the effects induced by these bacteria on nuclear remodeling in the context of cell survival. Helicobacter infected mice, coculture experiments, and xenograft mouse-derived models were used to assess the results in vitro and in vivo. These results showed that the formation of deep cytoplasmic invaginations is associated with the establishment of a large number of ribonucleoprotein particles within the nucleus of giant cells. The structures are active sites of mRNA translation, correlated with a high degree of ploidy and involve MAPK and calcium signaling. Additional data show that insulation and concentration of these adaptive ribonal nucleoproteins are dynamic, transient and protect the cell until the genoxic stress is relieved. Bacterial-induced NR would be a privileged gateway for selected mRNA to be preferably transported therein for local translation.
Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae and classified by Ridley-Jopling’s five-group system from lepromatous ( LL ) to tuberculoid ( TT ). Briefly, LL cases show no cellular immunity and manifest as a generalized disease including nasal cavities that resemble miliary tuberculosis, while TT cases shows a limited disease manifestation resembling the primary complex of tuberculosis. As a result, facial deformation is one of the serious sequelae of leprosy because these can lead to segregation and prejudice, and often cause difficulties in the social rehabilitation of cured patients. In this study, we used three-dimensional computed tomography ( 3D-CT ) imaging to evaluate the bone deformities in patients with lepersy. We found that the anterior-posterior length of maxilla ( MA-P ) was measured after compensating for individual skull size. These findings were also compared with those from previous paleopathological studies. This study also confirmed the maxillary regression described in paleoarcheology.
To accurately recognize behaviorally relevant sounds in the presence of background noise, the auditory brain must therefore represent them in a way that is robust to noise. Here we investigated the extent of neuronal adaptation to the mean and contrast of auditory stimulation as one ascends the pathway. We measured these forms of adaptation by presenting complex synthetic and natural sounds, recording neuronal responses in auditory cortex of anaesthetized ferrets, and comparing these responses with a sophisticated model of the human auditory nerve. To investigate whether this adaptation increases the strength of neural responses to stimulus statistics, we also presented complex sounds embedded in stationary noise and used a decoding approach to assess the noise tolerance of a neuronal population code. Our results show that the code for complex, natural sound in higher auditory centers is affected more by the addition of noise than the cortical code, so that populations that show the strongest adaptation are also the most noise-tolerant.
In the last decade due to the advance of high-throughput technologies system level inquiries became widespread. The network approach emerged as a versatile tool to assess the background of the regulation and changes of cellular functions to understand the functional organization of living cells. Heat shock, the archetype of stress responses, is a well-characterized and simple model organism, since both its protein-protein interaction network ( interactome ) and stress response at the gene expression level have been well characterized. In the current study we used the yeast PPI network to study the reorganization of its interaction-weights upon heat shock. Our results showed that the stress shock induced a significant decrease in both the overlaps and connections of yeast interactionsome modules. Several key proteins and local communities became centers and bridges providing a residual connection of modules after heat stress. This change may be rather general occurring in many types of stresses. Moreover, other systems, such as single proteins, social networks and ecosystems may also decrease their inter-modular links, thus develop more compact modules, and display a partial disintegration of their global structure in the initial phase of crisis. Thus, our work may provide a model of a general, system-level adaptation mechanism to environmental changes.
Chagas disease is a neglected chronic condition caused by Trypanosoma cruzi, with high prevalence and burden in Latin America. Cardiac complications result in remodeling of the cardiac collagenous matrix and subsequent fibrosis, leading to increased myocardial stiffness, systolic and diastolic dysfunction, and ultimately a severe dilated cardiomyopathy associated with ventricular arrhythmias. Since trypanocidal therapy with benznidazole had not proved to reduce cardiac clinical deterioration in clinical trials, amiodarone became the main therapeutic strategy to curb the evolution of this disease. Despite the lack of solid evidence regarding the benefits and risks of use, evidence from patients with other cardiopathies is often used for decision-making. We searched MEDLINE, Embase and LILACS up to January 2018, allowing individual patient data ( IPD ) analysis. Our aim was to do a systematic review of clinical trial, case series and before-after studies assessing the effect of amiotaron on ChagAS disease, to provide a more accurate estimate of its effect in this population. Overall quality of evidence was accessed using Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation ( GRADE ).
Seasonality is a major determinant of infectious disease rates, including arboviruses spread by mosquitoes, such as dengue, chikungunya, and Zika, among others. Seasonal patterns of disease are driven by a combination of climatic or environmental factors and human behavioral time trends. In this study, we used Poisson generalized linear modeling to determine short- and long-term seasonal patterns and the effect of day of the week and weekday-weekend patterns. We determined the impact of school schedules on disease seasonality. With a separate model, our results can inform local disease prevention efforts, public health planning, as well as global and regional models.
Most viruses store and replicate their genetic information as RNA, with no DNA component. For many emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases, definitive solutions via sterilizing adaptive immunity may require years or decades to develop, if they are even possible. The innate immune system offers alternative mechanisms that do not require antigen-specific recognition or a priori knowledge of the causative agent. However, it is unclear whether effective stable innate immunity can be achieved without triggering harmful autoimmunity or other chronic inflammatory sequelae. Here, we show that transgenic expression of a picornavirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( RdRP ), in the absence of other viral proteins, can profoundly reconfigure mammalian innate antiviral immunity by exposing the normally membrane-sequestered RdRRP activity to sustained immune detection. Our data reveal that a powerfully augmented MDA5-mediated activation state is sufficient to confer marked resistance to viral infection.
Effective population size ( Ne ) determines the strength of genetic drift and the frequency of co-infection by multiple genotypes, making it a key factor in viral evolution. Experimental estimates of Ne for different plant viruses have, however, rendered diverging results. The independent action hypothesis ( IAH ) states that each virion has a probability of infection, and that virions act independent of one another during the infection process. A corollary of IH is that Ne must be dose dependent. To test these hypotheses, we constructed two Tobacco etch virus ( TEV, genus Potyvirus ) variants carrying GFP or mCherry fluorescent markers, in Nicotiana tabacum and Capsicum annuum plants. We determined the number of primary infection foci in the inoculated leaf and which genotype had systemically infected the plant. At high doses, primary infections were found at a low frequency ( <2% ). In a few rare cases, the probability that a plant virus that infected that plant would systemsically infect that leaf was near 1. Dose-dependency in tobacco suggests that comparison of estimates for the different viruses are not very meaningful unless dose effects are taken into consideration.
The majority of expression quantitative trait locus ( eQTL ) studies have been carried out in single tissues or cell types, using methods that ignore information shared across tissues. Although global analysis of gene expression in multiple tissues is now feasible, few integrated statistical frameworks for joint analysis and simultaneous analysis are developed to date. In this paper, we propose Sparse Bayesian Regression models for mapping expression QTLs within individual tissues and simultaneously across tissue. We demonstrate that our methods are more powerful than traditional approaches in revealing the true complexity of the regulatory landscape at the systems-level. Highlighting the power of our method and the generality of its modelling approach makes it adaptable to other model systems and humans, with broad application to analyses of multiple intermediate and whole-body phenotypes.
When exposed to tumor necrosis factor or TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand ( TRAIL ), both closely related death ligands and investigational therapeutic, cells enter a protracted period of variable duration in which only upstream initiator caspases are active. A subsequent and sudden transition marks activation of the downstream effector cepases that rapidly dismantle the cell. Thus, extrinsic cell death is controlled by an unusual variable-delay, snap-action switch that enforces an unambiguous choice between life and death. We constructed a mathematical model based on a mass reaction representation of known reaction pathways. The model was trained against experimental data obtained by live-cell imaging, flow cytometry, and immunoblotting of cells perturbed by protein depletion and overexpression. Model analysis shows that the pattern of interactions among Bcl-2 family members, the partitioning of Smac from its binding partner XIAP and the mechanics of pore assembly are all critical for snap action control.
During pregnancy, the placenta protects the fetus against the maternal immune response, as well as bacterial and viral pathogens. Bacterial pathogens that have evolved specific mechanisms of breaching this barrier, such as Listeria monocytogenes, present a unique opportunity for investigating the mechanistic features that make the feto-maternal barrier so formidable. In this work, we identify the host cell cytoplasmic protein afadin as a major binding partner for InlP, a member of the internalin family of proteins. We demonstrate that secreted InLP targets cytosolic Afadin to specifically promote L. monocompromised transcytosis across the basal face of polarized epithelial monolayers, which may contribute to the crossing of this membrane during placental infection.
The spirochete bacterium Treponema pallidum is the etiological agent of syphilis, a chronic multistage disease with an estimated 8 million new cases per year. Little is known about the global T. pallidium proteome, therefore mass spectrometry studies are needed to bring insights into pathogenicity and protein expression profiles during infection. To better understand the bacterial pathogenesis of this enigmatic organism, we studied a large number of bacterial strains isolated from rabbits in the late 1990’s. A total of 6033 peptides were detected, corresponding to 557 unique proteins at a high level of confidence. One hundred fourteen of the detected proteins were previously annotated as hypothetical or uncharacterized proteins. We found 8/12 proteins related to the paralogous tpr gene family. Protein abundance was semi-quantified using label-free spectral counting methods and a low correlation ( r = 0. 26 ) was found between previous microarray signal data and the protein abundance. These data provide valuable insights and pave the way for improved understanding of in vivo bacterial proteomes.
Protein Kinase A ( PKA ) is the major receptor for the cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) secondary messenger in eukaryotes. CAMP is a multi-domain protein, starting from a dimerization-docking domain followed by a flexible linker, which includes an inhibitory site for C and is in turn flanked by two tandem cAM-binding domains ( CBD-A and -B ) that provide additional contact sites for binding the C-subunit. Preliminary evidence suggests that the dynamics of the CBDs are critical for its gatekeeper function. To test this hypothesis, here we investigate by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ( NMR ) the two-dimensional construct RIα ( 91–379 ) in its apo, cam2-bound forms. We find that each CBD dynamically samples both active and inactive states independently of each adjacent CBD within a nearly degenerate free energy landscape. The inter-CBD interface is dispensable for intra-cBD conformational selection, but is indispensable for full activation of PK as it occludes C subunit recognition sites within CBD. In addition, we show marked differences in their residual dynamics profiles, supporting the notion that conservation does not necessarily imply conservation of dynamics.
The type I interferon ( IFN ) -stimulated gene 15 ( ISG15 ) encodes one of the most abundant proteins in the immune system, and its expression is associated with antiviral immunity. To identify protein components implicated in this organelle, we compared the proteomes of mice infected with vaccinia virus ( VACV ) and bone marrow derived macrophages ( BMDM ) after vaccination. The results of this analysis revealed that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative phosphorylation ( OXPHOS ) were pathways altered in M1 and M2 cells. Mitochondrial respiration, Adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production and arginase-1 activation was higher in ISGs15+/+ BmdM than in IFNs-treated cells concomitant with a decrease in viral titer. An additional consequence of IS G15 depletion was a significant change in macrocytic polarization. We also observed a clear blockade of nitric oxide production, which has been shown to be dependent on the fine regulation of its polarization, suggesting that the function and stability of mitochondria is essential for cellular homeostasis.
Viral protein U ( Vpu ) of HIV-1 has two known functions in replication of the virus: degradation of its cellular receptor CD4 and enhancement of viral particle release. We previously reported the cloning and the characterization of a novel phosphorylation site in the viral protein. Here we show that, especially in cells arrested in early mitosis by the cell-cycle arrest triggered by nocodazole, the degradation occurs via a βTrCP-independent pathway. In addition, we demonstrate that this degradation process requires phospholylation of serine 61 residue, which lies adjacent to the binding motif. Thus, differential phospholipidation of vpu determines its fate as an adaptor or as a substrate of distinct ubiquitin ligases. Our results highlight a mechanism of differential degradation that determines the virion fate.
Organisms require robust developmental processes to guarantee that developing tissues pattern correctly in the face of a wide range of environmental and physiological conditions. We propose two hypotheses through which tissue patterning could be coordinated with whole-body development to generate this robustness. Our first hypothesis states that the progression of pattern in individual tissues is tightly coordinated and happens at developmental milestones, indicating that these key developmental events represent milestones. To distinguish between our hypotheses, we developed a staging scheme for the wing imaginal discs of Drosophila larvae, linking our scheme to three different phases of developmental: moulting, larval wandering and pupariation. Using our system to explore how the pattern changes when developmental time is altered either by changing temperature or by altering the timing of hormone synthesis that drives developmental progression, our results show that wing discs from wandering larvae show greater variability in pattern stage. Thus for wing disc pattern, wandering does not appear to be a developmental milestone.
In highly polarised cells, like fungal hyphae, early endosomes function in both endocytosis as well as long-distance transport of various cargo including mRNA and protein complexes. However, knowledge on the crosstalk between these seemingly different trafficking processes is scarce. Here, we demonstrate that the ESCRT regulator Did2 coordinates the precise maturation of the membrane mRNAs required for the correct transport to the lysosomal/vacuole compartment. Loss of Rrm4 results in defective vacuolar targeting, less processive long distance transport and abnormal shuttling of early endsomes. Consistently, the late-end directed movement of Rab7 is also disrupted resulting in defects in the mRNP linker protein Upa1. Importantly, molecular motors fail to attach efficiently explaining the disturbed movement. In conclusion, this study provides a new insight into the molecular link between endomolytic transport in highly polarized cells.
Many bacterial mRNAs are regulated at the transcriptional or translational level by ligand-binding elements called riboswitches. Although they both bind adenine, the bacillus subtilis and Vibrio vulnificus differ by controlling transcription and translation, respectively. Here, we demonstrate that, beyond the obvious difference in transcription/transational modulation, both ligands bind the same protein and appear to operate under different regulation regimes ( kinetic versus thermodynamic ). Our results suggest that the nature of gene regulation control ( that is transcription or translation ) may have a high importance in RNA-ligand regulation mechanisms.
Transcription in all cells is carried out by multi-subunit RNA polymerases ( RNAPs ) that are conserved in sequence, structure, and function from bacteria to humans. The first step in transcription, initiation, consists of a number of discrete steps that culminate in the catalysis of the first phosphodiester bond formed within the nascent RNA, “de novo initiation. ” Although PDI has been long known to occur during transcription reactions performed in vitro ( reviewed in [3] ), it has only recently been shown to be widely prevalent at promoters of genes expressed during the stationary phase of growth in Escherichia coli. In this study we demonstrate using high-throughput sequencing of RNA ends ( 5′ RNA-seq ) in Vibrio cholerae and E. coli that the pattern of PD I observed in both pathogenic Gammaproteobacteria is strikingly similar to that observed during exponential phase. Importantly, the growth phase-dependent increase in bhsA expression that occurs during stationaryphase contributes to the preferential generation of linear dinucleotides 5´-UA-3´ and 4′-GG-1, respectively. Thus, our findings illuminate a previously undocumented physiological role for the regulation of transcription initiation that modulates biofilm formation.
In mammals and in plants, parental genome dosage imbalance deregulates embryo growth and might be involved in reproductive isolation between emerging new species. These observations led to the discovery of imprinted genes, which are expressed by a single parental allele. The parental conflict hypothesis was supported to a certain extent in the frame of the kinship theory. However these hypotheses were never tested directly. Here, we investigated the effect of maternal genome imbalance on the expression of Arabidopsis genes FERTILIZATION INDEPENDENT SEED2 and FLOWERING WAGENINGEN ( FWA ) controlled by DNA methylation, and MEDEA ( MEA ) and PHERES1 ( PHE1 ). Genome dosage imbalances deregulated FIS2 expression in an antagonistic manner. In addition increased dosage of inactive alleles caused a loss of transcriptionally expressed imprinting of both genes. Our results show that the regulation of epigenetic imprints is independent from the regulatory mechanisms that regulate the transcriptional regulatory cis-elements.
Neurophysiological recordings of ongoing neural activity with EEG and MEG exhibit oscillations of specific frequencies over a non-oscillatory background. In the power spectrum, these rhythms appear as a collection of frequency bands that are evenly spaced on a logarithmic scale, thereby preventing mutual entrainment and cross-talk. We hypothesized that if we were able to construct abstract networks, or “virtual brains”, whose dynamics were similar to EEG/MEG recordings, those networks would share structural features among themselves, and also with real brains. Applying mathematical techniques for inverse problems, we have reverse-engineered network architectures that generate characteristic dynamics of actual brains, including spindles and sharp waves. These reconstructed networks show consistent alterations of functional connectivity and dynamics. Our results show that the complexity of the network, quantified as proposed by Tononi, Sporns and Edelman, is a good indicator of brain fitness, since virtual brains modeling diseased states display lower complexity than those modeling normal neural function.
The Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis ( MESA ) provides one of the largest and most thoroughly-characterized samples of Hispanic individuals to date, with ∼60, 000 SNPs selected for minimal linkage disequilibrium. Using the recently available genome-wide genotype data, we perform population structure analysis of an unrelated subset of 1, 374 unrelated individuals from the Multicenter Hispanic cohort. We show the first two principal components ( PCs ) of ancestry quantify the Caucasian, African, and Native American origins, while the third and fourth PCs bring out an axis that aligns with known South-to-North geographic location of HGDP samples and further separates the HapMap Mexican versus Central/South American samples along the same axis. Our genetic analysis indicates pooled analysis provides the best power when there is only modest heterogeneity in genetic effects, but stratified analysis offers better resolution to detect genetic loci in which SNP effects are limited to or much stronger within a single subgroup of Hispanics.
Histones that form the core components of nucleosomes, the basic building block of chromatin, are modified post-translationally by acetylation, methylation and ubiquitination. Histone chaperones facilitate DNA replication and gene transcription processes by binding to histones and/or disassembly. However, how these pathways are regulated is not well understood. In this report, we report an interaction between the Elongator histone-acetyltransferase ( HAT ) and the proliferating cell nuclear antigen. Cells lacking Elp3 lose silencing of reporter genes at telomeres and at the HMR locus, and are sensitive to DNA damaging agents including hydroxyurea and methyl methanesulfonate ( MMS ). We have shown that mutations in one of the four other subunits of ElP3, which compromise the formation of this complex, also result in loss of silence and increased HU sensitivity. Moreover, this mutation is required for S-phase progression in the presence of HHU. Together, these results reveal a novel role for the EHAT in maintaining genome stability.
Understanding how genetic variation in a population influences phenotypic variation is of major importance in biology. Naturally occurring genetic variants, both rare and common, can provide insight into disease mechanism and protein function. This understanding, coupled with the recent explosion in next-generation sequencing, has meant that it is now impossible for individual researchers to collect and collate all the variant information that may be relevant to them. To assist researchers, variants in publications is selected, summarized, organized, and stored in searchable form in knowledge bases such as UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and the GWAS Catalog. Triage is then required to select a subset of relevant publications for curation, which is usually carried out by querying and reading articles in PubMed. However, this query-based method often obtains unsatisfactory precision and recall on the retrieved results. We propose a machine-learning assisted triage method to improve the efficiency of this process.
Gain-of-function mutations in the KCNJ2-encoded Kir2. 1 channels underlie variant 3 ( SQT3 ) of the short QT syndrome, which is associated with atrial fibrillation ( AF ). Using biophysically-detailed human atria computer models, this study investigated the mechanistic link between mutations on the human action potential ( AP ), and the potential ion channel targets for treatment of S3-linked AF. The D172N and E299V mutations produced distinct effects on IK1 and APD shortening. Both mutations decreased WL for re-entry through a reduction in ERP and CV. Stability of AP duration and excitation waves in 2D and 3D tissue models was mediated by changes to tissue excitability and dispersion. Combined inhibition of both mutations resulted in a synergistic anti-arrhythmic effect in both forms of SF3.
Chagas disease, caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi, is a complex systemic disease endemic in Central and South America. It has been gathering interest due to increases in non-vectorial forms of transmission, especially in developed countries. The objective of this work was to investigate if adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stromal cells ( ASC ) can alter the course of the disease and attenuate pathology in a mouse model of chagasmic cardiomyopathy. ASC were injected intraperitoneally at 3 days post-infection ( dpi ). Tracking by bioluminescence showed that cells remained in the abdominal cavity for up to 9 days after injection and most of them migrated to the subcutaneous fat, an early parasite reservoir. At the same time point, analyses of cytokine release in cells isolated from the heart and exposed to T.cruzi antigens indicated an anti-inflammatory response in ASC-treated animals. In parallel, splenocytes from ASC group released higher levels of IL-10, which is important for the control of parasite replication, in placebo and ASC treated groups. Lymphoid organ response to parasite promoted the parasite burden, while heart, a target organ, was protected from damage.
In infected mammalian cells, Leishmania parasites reside within specialized compartments called parasitophorous vacuoles ( LPVs ). We have previously shown that Retro-2cycl, a member of a novel class of small retrograde pathway inhibitors, caused reduced LPV sizes and lower parasite numbers during experimental L. mexicana sp. infections. The purpose of this study was to determine if structural analogs of retro-receptor-dependent phenomena ( i. e., polyomavirus cellular infection in cells ) are also more effective than the parent compound. In addition, we show that two optimized analog of the retro grade trafficking inhibitor, DHQZ 36. 1, were found to be more efficacious in the viral infectivity assays. Moreover, in contrast to the previous study that showed that retro retrogrades are more active in axenic cultures, which is a desirable attribute for any drug to treat leishmaniasis. Together, these studies validate and extend the published structure-activity relationship analyses of one of these inhibitors.
The nucleosome—a bulky and ubiquitous protein structure tightly bound to DNA—is believed to be the fundamental unit of genomic organization in the eukaryotic cell. This organizational paradigm lays the groundwork for the incredible diversity of cellular morphology and function that can arise from a single genome. The role of histone modifications in regulating gene expression has received considerable attention since the discovery of the epigenome, and considerably more attention is still required to understand this complex regulatory network.
CDK activation depends on phosphorylation of their T-loop by a CDK–activating kinase ( CAK ). In animals, the only known Cip/Kip CD-K inhibitors p21 and p27 in this process are constitutively active. However, in unperturbed cell cycles, it is also transiently induced by mitogenic/oncogenic signaling. Therefore, a critical activation step is dephosphorylated of inhibitory sites by Cdc25 phosphatases rather than unrestricted TK4/6 activity. Here, we have identified the activating T172 as the highly regulated step determining the activation of the central oncosuppressor pRb and cell cycle commitment at the restriction ( R ) point in G1 phase. We have also identified a crucial but partly indirect role for the proline-directed ( p22 ) -dependent CD K4-activator ( s ) other than the main ( or the sole ) ( cip ), and the existence of novel positive feedbacks mediated by p 21-dependent positive-feedback circuits.
Meiosis is a complex process during which homologous chromosomes recombine, synapse, and segregate in two successive rounds without an intervening S-phase. Coordination of meiotic events is essential for successful production of haploid daughter cells. In yeast, entry into meiosis activates transcription factors which trigger a transcriptional cascade that results in sequential co-expression of early, middle and late genes. However, the factors and regulatory mechanisms that ensure proper gene expression in multicellular eukaryotes are poorly understood. Here, we report that DUET/MMD1, a PHD finger protein that encodes a plant specific protein in Arabidopsis, is required for function during male meiiosis in plants. We show that this interaction is critical for proper microtubule organization and cell cycle transitions, independently of its function in meia I. Remarkably, DUet protein shows stage-specific expression, confined to diplotene. Our results reveal that the action of this protein is under stagewise control in the plants as in yeast.
Fragile X–associated tremor/ataxia syndrome ( FXTAS ) is a neurodegenerative disorder seen mainly among male premutation carriers in or beyond their fifth decade of life. Previous studies have shown that FragileX rCGG repeat-binding proteins Pur α and hnRNP A2/B1 can modulate neuronal toxicity. In this study, we took a proteomic approach and identified more than 100 proteins that interact with Rm62, the Drosophila ortholog of p68 RNA helicase, which is known to play a novel role in RNA export and gene deactivation, particularly Hsp70 mRNA. Here we show that the nuclear accumulation of these mRNAs, likely as a result of impaired nuclear export of specific mRNA, is likely a possible cause of the compromised stress response in neurons expressing fragile X premutations.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic human pathogen that can cause life-threatening infections in cystic fibrosis ( CF ) patients and individuals with a compromised immune system. Biofilm bacteria are less susceptible to antimicrobial agents and are protected from the host immune response, giving rise to chronic infections that are notoriously difficult to eradicate. One of the most important features of a biofilm is the extracellular polymeric substance that functions as a matrix, holding bacterial cells together and protecting them from engulfment by phagocytic cells within a mammalian host. Yet very little is known about how the matrix forms or how matrix components encase bacteria during the development of biofilms. Here, we directly visualize the polysaccharide synthesis locus ( Psl ), which is anchored on the bacterial cell surface in a helical pattern. This promotes cell–cell interactions and assembly of an inter-connecting matrix. We show that this matrix is essential for the formation of Bacterial cells and on a surface. Deletion of genes that control cell death and autolysis affects the structure to maintain the architecture during development. These data provide a mechanism for how P. aeriginal polymers are assembled and subsequently a cavity to free a portion of cells for seeding dispersal. Direct visualization reveals that PSL is a key scaffolding matrix component and opens up avenues for therapeutics of bacterial-related complications.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) has the worst prognosis among solid malignancies and improved therapeutic strategies are needed to improve outcomes. Patient-derived xenografts and PDX serve as promising tools to identify new drugs with therapeutic potential in the disease. For these preclinical disease models to be effective, they should both recapitulate and validate patient-specific therapeutic sensitivities, a necessary step before widespread screening therapeutics. To date however, deep characterization of the molecular heterogeneity of these models and comparison with matched human tumours remains largely unaddressed at the whole genome level. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive assessment of genomic landscape of 16 whole-genome pairs of paired primary and liver metastases, including a unique cohort of 5 ‘trios’ of matched primary tumour and matched organoids. We developed a pipeline to score concordance between the matched cancer models for genomic events including mutations, structural variations, and copy number variations. Tumour-model comparisons of mutations displayed single-gene consensus across major driver genes, but relatively poor agreement across the greater mutational load. Genome-wide and chromosome-centric analysis of structural variation ( SV ) events highlights previously unrecognized SV events across chromosomes that demonstrate clustered SV. Our results highlight a major concern regarding ploidy changes in donor- model pairs.
Breast cancer is one of the most common malignancies diagnosed among women worldwide, including those living in East Asian countries. Genetic factors play an important role in the etiology of both sporadic and familial breast cancer. We conducted a large genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) in 19, 091 cases and 20, 606 controls of East-Asian descent including Chinese, Korean, and Japanese women. After analyzing 690, 947 SNPs, we evaluated 5, 365 for replication in 3, 972 cases, 3, 852 controls. Ninety-four SNP were further evaluated in up to 17, 423 additional subjects. Our study provides strong evidence for a novel genetic susceptibility locus represented by rs9485372, near the TGF-β activated kinase ( TAB2 ) gene in chromosome 6q25. 1. SNP rs7107217 ( P =1. 9×10−6 from the combined analysis of all samples ), located in intron 5 of ESR1 gene, is located at 11q24. 3. This study also suggests that genetic variants in two other genes, the A/G and A-A genotypes, may be related to the risk for this disease.
Cryptococcal meningitis ( CM ), caused by the fungus Cryptococcus neoformans, is one of the major causes of AIDS-related mortality, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, where it was estimated to account for as many as 500, 000 deaths annually prior to wide scale availability of antiretroviral therapy ( ART ). A number of clinical adverse prognostic markers in HIV-associated CM have been identified, including high fungal burden at CM diagnosis, poor rate of cryptococcal clearance from patient cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) during antifungal treatment, and altered mental status at presentation. Although patient-to-patient differences in clinical phenotype likely reflect a complex interplay between host factors ( level of immunosuppression, immune response phenotype, underlying immunogenetics, as well as health system factors such as delays to diagnosis and treatment ) and pathogen virulence factors, the mechanisms underpinning this variation have not yet been fully explored. In this study, we used multi-locus sequence typing and in vitro phenotypic assays to compare the genetic diversity of a cohort of 230 patients from South African clinical trial patients with detailed clinical follow-up. We found a relationship between genetic lineage and clinical outcome, with patients infected with the VNB lineage having significantly worse survival ( n=8, HR 3. 35, CI 1. 51-7. 20, p=0. 003 ) compared to patients who had the same genotype. These findings show that the human is a dead-end host and that lineage plays an important role in the pathogenesis of CM.
There are numerous examples of how signal transduction pathways within an organism selectively share components. For instance, in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, components are shared to varying degrees among pathways regulating mating, filamentation, cell wall integrity, ascospore formation, and osmoregulation. These examples, however, have not provided insights into how such pathways evolve. Here, through construction of an overexpression library for 107 transcription factors and through mutational analyses, we have identified the transcription factor Tec1 as the last component of the newly evolved pheromone response pathway that regulates the white cell phenotype in Candida albicans, an opportunistic human fungal pathogen. The elucidation of this new regulatory pathway, which was derived from three different ancestral programs still functional in C. albeys, provides a unique perspective on how signals may evolve in this organism.
The genomic GC-content of bacteria varies dramatically, from less than 20% to more than 70%. This variation is generally ascribed to differences in the pattern of mutation between bacteria. Here we test this hypothesis by examining patterns of synonymous polymorphism using datasets from 149 bacterial species. We find a large excess of GC→AT mutations over AT→GC mutations segregating in all but the most AT-rich bacteria, across a broad range of phylogenetically diverse species, and we show that this pattern is inconsistent with mutation bias, since it would imply that most bacteria are declining in GC–content; such a pattern would be unsustainable.
Control of soil-transmitted helminths ( STHs ) requires accurate, contemporary maps that provide intervention recommendations at policy-relevant spatial scales. Here we present a new approach for mapping the observed prevalence of infection, using the example of Kenya in 2009. Observed prevalence data for hookworm, Ascaris lumbricoides and Trichuris trichiura were assembled for 106, 370 individuals from 945 cross-sectional surveys undertaken between 1974 and 2009 in Kenya. Ecological and climatic covariates were extracted from high-resolution satellite data and matched to survey locations. Bayesian space-time geostatistical models were developed for each species, and were used to interpolate the probability that infection prevalence exceeded the 20% threshold across the country for both 2009 and 1989. The model estimated that a total of 2. 8 million school-age children live in districts which warrant mass treatment.
The immune response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) requires a coordinated response between the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system, resulting in a type 1 cytokine response, which is associated with control of infection. However, the contribution of innate lymphocytes to immunity against tuberculosis remains controversial. We established an in vitro system to study this question. Interferon-γ is produced when splenocytes from uninfected mice are cultured with infected macrophages, and, under these conditions, bacterial replication is suppressed. To determine whether CD1d-restricted invariant NKT ( iNKT ) cells are sufficient to restrict bacterial growth, we adoptively transferred iNsKT cells into mice. Our results show that the ability of splenic T cells, even in limiting quantities, to protect mice against aerosol infection is dependent upon the presence of NK and T cell subsets. These cells have a direct bactericidal effect in the absence of synthetic ligands such as α-galactosylceramide.
In many cases protein assemblies are stabilized by covalent bonds, one example of which is the formation of intra- or intermolecular ε- ( γ-glutamyl ) lysil cross-links. Because of the potential for unwanted cross linking reactions, the activities of many TGases have been shown to be tightly controlled. Bacterial endospores are highly resilient cells in part because they are surrounded by a complex protein coat. Proteins in the coat that surrounds Bacillus subtilis, a TGase, are crosslinked by the enzyme Tgl, which catalyzes amine incorporation and protein cross–linking in vitro with no known additional requirements. The absence of regulatory factors raises questions as to how the activity of TFase activity is controlled during spore coat assembly. Here, we show that substrates assembled onto the outer coat prior to production govern the localization of tgl to the surface of B. subtilais. We also identify the residues important for substrate recognition are crucial for its localization. Moreover, residues on the Q side of Tg are more important to assemble the pre-assembled complexes than those on K-side residues. Together, our results suggest that the dependency on its substrate is used to accurately control the time, location and extent of an enzyme´s activity.
Opisthorchis viverrini is a food-borne trematode species that might give rise to biliary diseases and the fatal cholangiocarcinoma, a bile duct cancer with extremely poor prognosis. In Lao PDR, an estimated 2. 5 million individuals are infected with the parasite. However, the spatial distribution of infection remains to be determined. A cross-sectional parasitological and questionnaire survey was carried out in 51 villages in Champasack province in the first half of 2007. Data on demography, socioeconomic status, water supply, sanitation, and behavior were combined with remotely sensed environmental data and fed into a geographical information system. Bayesian geostatistical models were employed to identify risk factors and to investigate the geographical pattern of O. viviparous infection. The prevalence of the infection among 3, 371 study participants with complete data records was 61. 1%. We found two different risk profiles: low risk ( i. e., rice farmer, fisherman and animal breeder ) and high risk in Mekong corridor. Our results indicate that infection is strongly associated with exposure to the second intermediate host fish, human behavior and culture, whereas high transmission is sustained by the lack of sanitation.
Dar es Salaam has an extensive drain network, mostly with inadequate water flow, blocked by waste, and causing flooding after rainfall. The presence of Anopheles and Culex larvae is common, which is likely to impact the transmission of lymphatic filariasis and malaria by the resulting adult mosquito populations. However, the actual importance of drains as larval habitats remains unknown. We analyzed the typology of mosquito breeding habitats routinely collected by Urban Malaria Control Program ( UMCP ) and a special drain survey conducted in 2006–2007. Focusing on drains, logistic regression was used to evaluate potential factors impacting the presence and distribution of mosquitoes. Spatial variation in the proportion of habitats that contained larvae was assessed through the local Moran's I indicator of spatial association. More than 70% of larvae were human-made. Aquatic habitats associated with agriculture ( 42% ) had the highest proportion Aedes aegypti and the second highest of Culesx, respectively, in drains with stagnant water. There was a positive association between vegetation and mosquito larvae ( p<0. 001 ). Restoring and maintaining drains in Dar es SALAAM has the potential to eliminate more than 40 per cent of all potential mosquito habitat that are currently treated with larvicides. These results underscore the need for a synergy between on-going control efforts of those diseases.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most common mosquito-borne viral disease in humans. Changes of lipid-related metabolites in endoplasmic reticulum are associated with replicative complexes formation. In this work, using enzymatic assays, ELISA, and WB we found a significant higher activity of HMGCR, a viral protein that is present in cholesterol-rich complexes ( lipid rafts ). AMPK activation by metformin and lovastatin decreased the activity, suggesting that the inhibition of this phosphatase induces an antiviral effect. Furthermore, the treatment of infected cells with compound C, which inhibits this enzyme, produced a slight increase in the infection process highlighting the presence of active protein kinase ( AMP ) -activated protein-K inhibitor. These data provide new information about the mechanisms involved in host lipid metabolism during the replication cycle.
Biological machines are ubiquitous in the cell and typically contain many molecules that include protein, RNA, and other cofactors. Each molecule provides a unique contribution to an assembly's energy landscape, which then governs the machine's function. To bridge discrete and continuous descriptions for a molecular machine, such as the ribosome, it is necessary to quantify the diffusive properties of functionally-relevant collective rearrangements. While bulk kinetic measurements rely on discrete state-like approximations, single-molecule methods can project the free energy onto specific coordinates. With measures of the diffusion, one may establish a quantitative bridge that is able to accurately capture these motions ( which encompass large-scale rotary movement of subunits ). We used an explicit-solvent molecular dynamics simulation to provide this bridge for specific conformational events associated with the process of tRNA translocation. Starting from a pre-translocation configuration, we identified sets of residues within each subunit that collectively undergo rotation/displacements. Estimates of these diffusion coefficients along these collective coordinates were then used to interconvert between experimental rates and measures. This analysis, in conjunction with previously reported rates of translocations, provides an upper-bound estimate of free-energy barriers. The quantitative framework is general and may be applied to energetic descriptions of any number of intermediates and transition states.
Medullary thyroid cancer ( MTC ) is a rare malignancy that accounts for up to 3–5% of thyroid cancers. It is derived from calcitonin-secreting para-follicular C cells and can arise in a familial ( 25% ) or sporadic pattern. Genes encoding the ret proto-oncogene ( RET ) and Ras ( RAS ) are commonly mutated in both familial and sporadic cases. Genetic and epigenetic alterations play important roles in the progression and prognosis of this disease, although some oncogenic mutations have been identified. In the current study, we used targeted cancer panel sequencing to identify two types of ALK fusion genes. The first case harboring the EML4-ALK fusion showed a dramatic response to crizotinib, indicating that the fusion may be a potential driver mutation and a valid target for molecular target therapy.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a vector-borne protozoal disease caused by the Leishmania donovani species complex. Asymptomatic infection may drive the epidemic and an important challenge is to reach the goal of joint V L elimination initiative taken by three Asian countries. In this part of the world a large number of individuals are symptomatic with positive serological test, polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) in individuals who are apparently in a healthy condition. Such individuals need much attention for the elimination programme that has been initiated by India, Nepal, and Bangladesh.
Genome instability is important for normal cellular survival and growth. Genome rearrangements are also associated with genetic diseases and the development of cancer. We previously demonstrated that the introduction of the repetitive retrotransposon Ty912 onto a nonessential chromosome arm of Saccharomyces cerevisiae led to increased genome instability predominantly due to the increased rates of formation of monocentric nonreciprocal translocations. In this study, we adapted Multiplex Ligation–dependent Probe Amplification ( MLPA ) to analyze a large numbers of these GCRs in a manner that scales well in terms of both cost and time. Our results demonstrate that multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification is a versatile technique that can provide copy number variation data for targeted regions at a rapid, inexpensive, and highly parallel manner.
The association of two proteins is driven by a free energy funnel, determined by favorable interactions in some neighborhood of the native state. We describe a docking method based on stochastic global minimization of funnel-shaped energy functions in the space of rigid body motions ( SE ( 3 ) ) while accounting for flexibility of interface side chains. The method, called semi-definite programming-based underestimation ( SDU ), employs a general quadratic function to underestimate a set of local energy minima and uses the resulting underestimator to bias further sampling. While the method effectively minimizes functions with funnel–shaped basins, its application to docking in SE is not straightforward due to the geometry of that space. To that end, we introduce a strategy that uses separate independent variables for side-chain optimization, center-to-center distance, and five angular descriptors of relative orientations of molecules. Results for standard protein docking benchmarks establish that in this space the Free energy landscape is a funnel in a reasonably broad neighborhood, which provides a handle to free-energy maximization. This strategy can generate docking predictions with less than 5 Å ligand interface Cα root-mean-square deviation while achieving an approximately 20-fold efficiency gain compared to Monte Carlo methods.
